#Unknown
89
http://www.cnn.com/2015/09/21/opinions/zelizer-gop-taxes/index.html
tax reform
#Summary
Donald Trump has managed to open up a serious debate within Republican politics. His call to eliminate a tax break that protects the wealth of hedge fund managers has stimulated a backlash among conservatives. The conservative Club for Growth has predictably blasted the idea. This reform, it says, constitutes the kind of tax increase that should be anathema to the party of President Ronald Reagan. Raising taxes is unjust, club members say, and stifles economic growth. Liberals who are becoming too giddy about this proposal should calm down. Both Bush's and Trump's plan would slash corporate and individual rates, making the tax system more regressive by lowering taxes on the wealthy. This is just one loophole-closing reform within a broader agenda of slashing the progressivity of the income tax system. Bush's proposal, according to Jared Bernstein, a former adviser to Vice President Joe Biden, is a "revenue-eating wolf in sheep's clothing." Still, the debate that is taking place is very real for Republicans. The party has gone to great lengths since the 1970s to take tax increases off the table after many decades when a sizable part of the party understood that fiscal austerity required a combination of revenue hikes and spending cuts. The tenor of Republican politics changed significantly with the rise of the conservative movement. An anti-tax movement in California helped inscribe these principles into property taxes.   He and others in his administration promoted a "starve the beast" strategy whereby Republicans would cut off the revenue sources of the federal government so that it would be harder to launch new programs. Reagan's historic across-the-board tax cuts in 1981 were praised as a major victory against liberalism. Grover Norquist, an influential conservative activist who founded Americans for Tax Reform (which promotes the no-tax pledge), pressured Republicans into agreeing they would not support tax increases. The positions of conservatives have moved even further to the right than when Bush was in office. Today, this is evident as the Club for Growth is attacking a proposed cut in loopholes, something that Republicans had accepted. Even this is much too much for them. If Trump and Bush are able to shift the conversation back at least to where it was in the 1980s, it would be important step for the party -- even if it is a baby step. The adherence to no tax increases under any circumstances has damaged the ability of the GOP to legitimately claim the mantle of fiscal conservatism, and this stance has been a huge obstacle in budget negotiations with Democrats. The fact that two mainstream candidates are willing to start taking on this orthodoxy could put the Norquist crew on the defensive and help the GOP strengthen some of its public image. More important, it might start to create conditions that would make it possible to normalize the budget process. While there are some issues where conservatives are willing to give and take, taxation has not been one of them. Without any kind of change within the GOP, the prospects of a sounder budget process and path toward fiscal balance will remain elusive. 
