#Unknown
56
http://www.cnn.com/2017/04/25/opinions/trumps-billionaire-friendly-tax-plan-mccaffery/index.html
tax reform
#Summary
What we have learned about Donald Trump's leanings on tax policy make them Exhibit A in his bait-and-switch presidency. Although he was elected as a man of the people, Trump's tax reform plans make it clear that he is serving as a baron for billionaires. The tea leaves that pass for a coherent legislative policy suggest that Trump's Plan A had pulled a page or two from House Speaker Paul Ryan's playbook, long on the shelves. Ryan had a wonky, but nifty, three-step: -- One, repeal, but don't quite replace Obamacare; -- Two, enact a corporate tax reform featuring a brand new "border adjustment" tax, also known as tariffs; and -- Three, enact sweeping income tax cuts and repeal the estate tax. Alas, Plan A didn't quite work. Turns out that the people paid attention to details, like the devilish one about the 24 million who stand to lose health insurance coverage.  Unfortunately, real tax policy ought to be more than a Vegas-style magic show. There are two painfully serious sets of problems with the return of supply-side witchcraft. Even if growth were to spike up quickly to these rosy-hued levels, interest rates, still historically low, would certainly rise. This would doubly hurt the federal government, because it would have more debt to finance, due to the tax cuts, and at higher interest rates.   Second, even if we were to plunge into more debt on a risky gambit for greater growth, why should tax cuts for the rich get the first (and maybe only) priority for the corresponding goodies?  Couldn't the trillions for billionaires be better spent, say, on middle-class tax cuts, infrastructure investments, and/or education, with perhaps a little left over for science, the environment and international affairs? Donald Trump got elected president promising to be a man of the people, a ruler for the forgotten. Now it is he who seems to have forgotten. His Plan A on tax reform was to take from the bottom to give to the top. Thwarted in that effort by the people, who turn out to like having health care, Trump turned to Plan B: take from the future to give to the top. Let us hope that the people rise up again and stop the latest attempt at a billionaire money grab. Then maybe, just maybe, Trump could live up to his promise to be a new kind of politician, one for the American middle class.  He could give us Plan C: a tax reform that, instead of giving more breaks to the billionaire class, actually asks them to share more with the rest of us. Unfortunately, it is exactly such a sensible reaction to rising economic inequality and mounting associated political concerns that sounds like voodoo these days.    
