#Unknown
17
http://www.cnn.com/2017/12/04/opinions/republican-tax-plan-trump-opinion-kohn/index.html
tax reform
#Summary
The Republican tax bill and its aftermath prove two things about our politics today. First, no matter how much they might insist otherwise, Republicans consistently prioritize the economic advantage and security of big business and the very wealthy at the expense of middle- and low-income Americans. And, second, no matter how much he might insist otherwise, Donald Trump is in perfect lockstep with the core of the Republican economic agenda. Since Trump began his campaign for the presidency, both the left and right have painted him as extreme. Progressives (myself included) have portrayed Trump as a radical departure from conventional politics, both because he lacks the experience or seriousness to do the job but also because he seems to embrace extremist ideology. Just consider his tweets last week reposting videos from Islamophobic extremists. Trump supporters, on the other hand, have portrayed their hero as anathema to the Republican establishment -- Trump is "telling it like it is" and "draining the swamp."  Yet here we have a president who, as every indication suggests, supports a tax policy literally written by the paid Washington lobbyists who are the very muck of that swamp. And the bill advances the conventional stock-in-trade, pro-big business agenda that has and will always be the lifeblood of Republican politics.  The truth is no matter how much his supporters try to portray him otherwise, Trump is fully supportive of the conservative fiscal agenda -- cutting government supports for poor and middle-class Americans in order to fund giant giveaways to corporations and the super rich.  And no matter what he insisted during the campaign, or his lies to the contrary since, Trump has proven himself consistently loyal to one group and one group only -- his fellow big business billionaires. That's who really won this election, and who are the winners of this tax bill.  The rest of us, to borrow a phrase from Trump, are losers.   
