#Unknown
83
http://www.cnn.com/2015/11/11/opinions/perry-gop-debate/index.html
tax reform
#Summary
In the GOP presidential debate, Marco Rubio responded to a question about work, wages and college tuition by attacking philosophy majors. He said:  "Here's the best way to raise wages. Make America the best place in the world to start a business or expand an existing business, tax reform and regulatory reform, bring our debt under control, fully utilize our energy resources so we can reinvigorate manufacturing, repeal and replace Obamacare, and make higher education faster and easier to access, especially vocational training. For the life of me, I don't know why we have stigmatized vocational education. Welders make more money than philosophers. We need more welders and less philosophers." But this isn't just about how awesome a philosophy major is. The data on wages and education reveal two things. First, college degrees are a good investment, though we've got to address the high cost of tuition and the student debt crisis. Second, welders, and all skilled blue-collar workers, need a raise. Philosophy is not unique in propelling its majors to financial success. Like my own degree in history, philosophy gives students a key set of analytical and expressive skills that are mandatory for nearly every high-paying career. College graduates do better in the job market not only because some acquire useful skills, but also because employers want employees with the ability to think critically and to adapt to the jobs of tomorrow. There are, of course, many complexities to these numbers, such as whether low-achieving high school students should invest in college and take on debt, but the overall pattern is clear. These numbers are why we must continue to fight to make college affordable, accessible and high quality for everyone. That means no shortcuts like cheap online programs, over-reliance on temporary adjunct professors, and unethical for-profit colleges. But the crux of these discussions isn't just about the earning potential of liberal arts majors.  Welders, and all people who work in blue-collar industries, are too often underpaid. It's easy for white-collar pundits and former political science majors (a heavily philosophical discipline) like Marco Rubio to forget. I'm reminded of Joe the Plumber from the 2008 campaign, a man who was famously neither named Joe nor working as a plumber. He told then-candidate Barack Obama that as a plumber he soon expected to earn over $250,000 a year, therefore Obama's tax plan would hurt him, and by extension good American small business owners everywhere. The best way to help the large swath of American middle class -- both white-collar workers and blue-collar workers -- is to focus on a new labor movement and revitalize unions. I believe in an America where those who want to study philosophy can do it with the knowledge that they will be prepared to compete for good jobs as they move forward. I believe in an America where people interested in trades can, likewise, find good work that pays living wages. It's time for a new labor movement that unites college students with underpaid skilled labor. Blue-collar and white-collar, college-educated and skilled labor, should stand united, shoulder-to-shoulder. We're all in this together. 
