#Unknown
3
http://www.cnn.com/2018/01/23/opinions/infrastructure-2018-priorities-opinion-ascher/index.html
tax reform
#Summary
If 2017 is remembered as the year of major tax reform, let 2018 be remembered as the year that the nation's infrastructure was finally recognized as a priority for federal investment. For several weeks, there has been talk that infrastructure could form a cornerstone of the President's new agenda. So, what infrastructure priorities would be top of my list?  In no special order, I'd spend our money on the following:  1.  Funding for Amtrak, our national rail carrier, has long been a battleground between the political parties. Supporting Amtrak's nationwide operations is not a political sin, but rather a necessity to ensure continued service between cities or towns with insufficient traffic to pay their own way. 2. : The federal formula for funding roadways, including bridges, is complex -- and few outside of the transport world understand it. Suffice it to say that the lion's share of the cost of our interstate highway system -- of which major bridges are often a part -- has historically been paid for by federal, rather than state, dollars thanks to a burst of federal spending during and following the Eisenhower administration.   5. : As our appetite for foreign goods has grown, the ships delivering these good to our shores have too -- some of them doubling in capacity over the course of the last generation. Yet our willingness as a nation to invest in the changes necessary to handle these behemoths -- deeper harbors, higher bridges, better intermodal connections and more efficient security systems -- has not.   Once upon a time, our nation built the interstate highway system -- and it has paid dividends ever since. Today, however, we rely almost exclusively on the vagaries of state funding, resulting in a prolonged period of declining service across far too many forms of infrastructure.  When will we realize that the costs -- in reliability, productivity and safety -- of not investing in these critical areas far outweigh the costs to the nation of doing so, even belatedly? 
