#Unknown
21
http://www.cnn.com/2017/11/24/opinions/tax-code-change-opinion-sheffield/index.html
tax reform
#Summary
When I was little, my family spent some time on public assistance. So I learned at a young age that the best way to lift people out of poverty and into the middle class is to expand economic opportunity. Creating well-paying jobs allows for the social mobility that is often unattainable for families when they are dependent on government assistance. People thrive with the dignity of self-reliance. The US tax code works against this principle.  The tax code is built upon bad fiscal policy, which is, needless to say, bad for the nation. We have to find a better way to operate. On Thursday, the House passed a tax reform bill, and the Senate has advanced its own tax proposal, both of which would be a big step toward remedying some of these ills. In different ways, the House and Senate bills would cut back on the deductibility of state and local taxes (SALT). This provision has generated some strong pushback, but let's consider what this means for a minute.  How is it fair that residents of low-tax states are left subsidizing the bad choices made by lawmakers in other states? Why should two people with similar incomes and similar life situations who live perhaps miles apart near a state line be treated so differently?  The answer, of course, is politics.   Talk about immoral. That's time parents could be spending with their kids. That's money small business owners could be investing in their stores, their employees, their futures. Then there's the unfairness of it.  What we're left with is a two-tiered system in which some are the movers and shakers, and the rest of us are just left shaking with rage at the injustice of it all. Will either the Senate or House tax reform measures fix all these problems? Of course not. What legislation ever solved a problem completely? Deals are cut, compromises are necessary, politics continues to be played. But both bills include provisions that constitute an improvement over the status quo. Lower rates on individuals mean more money in the pockets of taxpayers, and corporate rate cuts benefit everybody. These reforms should not be viewed as "tax cuts for the rich." Instead, they are tax cuts that enrich us all.  Bitter partisanship should not preclude Washington from doing the right thing and fixing the unfairness that permeates the tax code. It's time to move away from a convoluted and arcane system that discourages economic growth and baffles most of us, toward a simpler, fairer system that creates opportunity for all. 
