#Unknown
45
http://www.cnn.com/2017/06/22/opinions/whats-really-behind-trumps-poor-person-comment-waldman/index.html
tax reform
#Summary
When he ran for president, one of the many things that made Donald Trump stand apart from other politicians was the way he turned the implied into the literal. You can look at this as an admirable forthrightness -- the difference between him and the rest of his party isn't in what they believe, just in how willing he is to speak it out loud. Trump may tell more lies than any other politician any of us has ever seen, but there's never any mystery about what he wants his audience to think. He lacks the subtlety to conceal his feelings behind clever formulations and eloquent words. "This is the president of Goldman Sachs. Smart. Having him represent us, he went from massive paydays to peanuts ... these are people that are great, brilliant business minds and that's what we need, that's what we need to have so the world doesn't take advantage of us anymore." He went on: "And I love all people -- rich or poor -- but in those particular positions, I just don't want a poor person. Does that make sense? Does that make sense? If you insist, I'll do it -- but I like it better this way, right?" To start with, let's be clear that we aren't talking about actual poor people. No one's suggesting that the President ought to pluck someone working for minimum wage at a fast-food restaurant to be the next chair of the Council of Economic Advisers. When Trump says "poor," what he really means is "not rich." The difference is that only Trump argues that these people will do a good job precisely because they're rich, that their wealth is itself a qualification. Just look at what Republicans in control of the government are doing right now on health care. Their attempt to repeal the Affordable Care Act is essentially a giant tax cut for the wealthy, financed by taking insurance away from millions of poor and middle-class people. Once that's done, they'll be moving on to tax "reform" -- another giant tax cut for the wealthy, which they'll justify by arguing that we must unburden the noble "job creators" of the oppressive weight of taxation under which they currently suffer. When that's through, they'll be attacking other elements of the safety net, including food stamps. When they're in charge -- however differently they may frame it for the base -- the wealthy will be hired, catered to, indulged and pampered, while the poor will be the target of vicious budget cuts and stern lectures about pulling on those bootstraps. It doesn't come from any notion about what makes for effective policies -- it's about values. Trump is just a little more willing to say it. 
