#Unknown
4
http://www.cnn.com/2018/01/10/opinions/conservative-civil-war-opinion-sheffield/index.html
tax reform
#Summary
The ongoing conservative civil war came to a head Tuesday with the ouster of Steve Bannon at Breitbart News. This latest twist comes in the wake of a dispute between President Trump and Bannon, triggered by bombshell quotes in Michael Wolff's "Fire and Fury" book. By separating himself from Bannon, Trump is continuing to govern more like a traditional conservative than many observers expected. Bannon embodied the ongoing strife surrounding the conservative movement, and he sought to circumvent the President and become a movement by himself, in spite of Trump. Yet Bannon's fortunes only rose because of Trump, and he joined the Trump campaign in the homestretch, more than a year after the candidate descended the Trump Tower escalator. Bannon's attempt at internal guerilla warfare is harmful for the future of the conservative movement. If Bannon helped sound the war cry that led to Trump's victory, he failed to understand that to everything there is a season, including peace. If conservatives are smart, Bannon's departure will be a turning point to move beyond the contentious climate of a conservative civil war launched amidst the 2016 election among the Never Trump "Establishment" types, the bomb-throwing, anti-establishment Bannonites and the growing body of conservative Trump supporters. Congress hangs in the balance with November's elections, and ongoing fracturing will be a stumbling block to advancing a conservative policy agenda. Trump was the most non-traditional candidate in modern history, with no elected public policy track record and an aggressive tone. But now a year later, he's delivered in big ways that even the most ardent Never Trump conservatives must acknowledge. Trump has succeeded in placing stalwart conservative judicial nominees at all levels, spearheaded the most robust tax reform in a generation, protected Internet freedom by rolling back flawed net neutrality, and let the world know American energy policy is made in Washington, not on foreign soil. Abroad, Trump continued the efforts that led to ISIS' defeat, stood up to Pakistan on terrorism, rightfully acknowledged Jerusalem as Israel's capital, successfully pressured China to support tougher North Korea sanctions, bolstered the Ukrainians against Russia, and more. It's time for the Never Trumpers (who are my former 2016 compatriots -- I wrote in Sen. Ben Sasse (R-Neb.) as a protest presidential vote) to stop living in a fantasy world: Trump isn't going anywhere. The criminal Russia collusion investigation against Trump has not yet turned up evidence of criminal collusion by the President. The way conservatives transcend the tumultuous political climate is to help Trump, and therefore America, succeed. That doesn't mean lawmakers should agree with the president on everything, but the continued Never Trumpers are rejecting William F. Buckley's mantra to back "the rightwardmost viable candidate." Turning your back on a Republican president in office undermines the spirit that Buckley supported. Trump's victory blindsided many "Establishment" conservatives, but that doesn't mean they and MAGA foot soldiers can't and shouldn't work together. Rather than stubbornly clinging to preconceptions about each other, dialogue and respectful understanding of differences will move us forward. A reconciliation could take us a long way back toward Ronald Reagan's Shining City on a Hill. 
