#Unknown
72
http://www.cnn.com/2016/12/27/opinions/what-it-will-take-to-replace-obamacare-atlas/index.html
tax reform
#Summary
Judging by appointments to top posts in health care, the incoming Trump administration is on course to validate its campaign promise to "repeal and replace" the Affordable Care Act. Despite the emphasis by many on preserving secondary parts of the law like maintaining children up to age 26 on the parent's coverage, Americans should understand that the ACA indeed must be eliminated. Why? Because its misguided amalgam of regulations generated skyrocketing insurance premiums, reduced choice of doctors, funneled millions more poor people into substandard programs and accelerated consolidation throughout the health care industry-- serious consequences directly harmful to patients. The ACA's biggest error was broadening a detrimental misapplication of health insurance that began decades ago. The point of insurance is to reduce risk of financial disaster. Instead, with its long list of mandates and regulations, the ACA furthered the inappropriate construct that insurance should subsidize all medical care and minimize out-of-pocket payments. The ACA's coverage requirements directly caused more widespread adoption of bloated insurance.  When combined with invisible health care prices as well as doctor qualifications, most patients have virtually no incentive and lack sufficient information to consider value; similarly, providers don't need to compete on price. The consequences are the overuse of health care and unrestrained costs.  HSAs, tax-sheltered accounts for smaller health expenses, are another critical component of reform, because they motivate direct consideration of price. Better than simple tax deductions, HSAs also incentivize saving. These accounts have been over-regulated by current law.  Raising maximums and catch-up contributions at least to those of IRA limits, and allowing uses for elderly parents and rollovers to surviving family members are steps to take immediately.  Beyond the numbers, the tax exclusion created perverse incentives. It encouraged higher demand for care, regardless of cost, while distorting insurance into covering almost all services, greatly increasing health care costs. Rational tax reform should have three main features: 1) deductibility for everyone, whether insured through employers, or self-employment, to level the playing field; 2) limits on exclusions to the maximum allowable HSA contribution; and 3) limited eligibility for exclusions to incentivize appropriate health spending, i.e., HSA contributions and catastrophic coverage. This approach has important advantages over tax credits, an alternative favored by many conservatives, including U.S. Rep. Tom Price and House Speaker Paul Ryan. Tax credits would create yet another government entitlement, at a time when entitlement reform in the opposite direction is already urgent. Tax credits further complicate a monstrously complex tax code. Tax credits further expand the far-too-dominant IRS's mission from collecting revenues to doling out money to favorite economic activities. Tax credits are actually reminiscent of Obamacare subsidies, given that government officials would necessarily set rules about eligibility, including "appropriateness" of coverage, to receive the credit. While politically appealing as a visible demonstration of a "helping hand", let's realize this -- tax credits represent another example of government literally taking taxpayer money from one person and allocating it to someone else. Moreover, we must know by now that entitlement costs always -- always - expand far beyond projections. Income exclusions, on the other hand, meet a different and important fairness test -- the government overtly admits that some earned income is simply off-limits to the dictates of government and should stay with the worker. 
