#Unknown
60
http://www.cnn.com/2017/03/27/opinions/after-healthcare-trump-stewart-opinion/index.html
tax reform
#Summary
Can you hear me now?  Can you hear me now? After years of conservative voices falling on deaf ears among the GOP establishment in Washington, principled conservatives, such as those in the House Freedom Caucus (HFC), managed to blunt President Trump's initial stab at repealing and replacing Obamacare. Look, I fully commend President Trump for quickly taking steps to follow through on campaign promises, such as: repealing and replacing Obamacare, building the wall, reforming taxes, and nominating a Scalia-like justice to the Supreme Court.   I applaud the speed at which he set much of this into motion.  But it's also important to get it right, not just fast. In the short term, rather than dwell on this temporary health care setback, President Trump should focus on positives, like his plan to reform taxes. His goal to provide the middle-class tax cut would unite Republicans and Democrats. He will, for now, have to focus on achievable wins. The eventual confirmation of Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court will be a massive victory for President Trump.  Not to mention the president's ability to fill up the many circuit court vacancies with Gorsuch-style judges. Now, in the long term, we will actually need to fix our nation's health care system. Amidst all the finger pointing, tweet-shaming and armchair quarterbacking of the American Health Care Act (AHCA) failure, there's no denying that it showed the strength of the conservative wing of the Republican Party. In the hours leading up to the AHCA vote, top White House officials were pulling out all the stops to sway conservative House members from a "no" vote to a "yes" vote.  At the same time, these members were getting texts, calls and emails from constituents, asking them to stand firm, and honor their promises for lower premiums and patient-centered care. And stand firm, they did. The administration attributes the failure, in part, to House Democrats who were not willing to put politics aside and make our healthcare system better. But the reality is that the GOP divide between moderate Republicans in The Tuesday Group and more conservative members of the HFC was too much to overcome. Fundamentally, the issue with passing AHCA stemmed from the fact that conservative Republicans had campaigned for years on repealing and replacing Obamacare and bringing about lower health care premiums and greater choices. Those opposed to AHCA simply didn't believe the bill achieved those promises. To say the least, the process has been a teachable moment. The GOP establishment crafting and drafting the bill in secret and then expecting it to pass in 18 days will not work. While Republicans control the House, the Senate and the White House, the party is a house divided. And our health care system is a house of cards -- teetering under the weight of Obamacare.  
