#Unknown
16
http://www.cnn.com/2017/12/11/opinions/tax-bill-crandall-opinion/index.html
tax reform
#Summary
On December 2, the Senate passed a tax bill that is both mean and stupid. The bill is stupid because it cuts taxes for US corporations -- which are enjoying record profits and heady valuations -- and for the country's wealthiest citizens -- who have done spectacularly well and now control a larger share of the country's income and wealth than ever. Moreover, it does so in part by eventually raising taxes on the US middle class, who have fallen behind in the economic race and need help rather than more taxes, and in part by increasing the already gigantic US debt.  It is particularly stupid because there is a broad consensus of bipartisan agencies and economists who agree it cannot increase growth by anywhere near enough to offset the revenue losses driven by the tax cuts.  We've tested the idea that tax cuts pay for themselves several times and in each case, have found that growth-related revenue falls far short of replacing lost tax revenues.  Consider some of the bills' most outrageous aspects. In the House version, teachers who buy school supplies out of their own pocket will lose the deduction for those expenses. Medical expenses will no longer be as deductible as has been the case -- which will hit senior citizens hard -- while inheritance taxes on multimillion-dollar estates will be lowered and eventually eliminated.  Worst of all, we are now hearing that the higher deficits will require cuts to our most important and popular social programs: Medicaid, Children's Health Insurance (known as CHIP), Medicare and Social Security. For some reason, lots of people in America seem to have forgotten that we made our country great by building the world's best infrastructure, by creating and sustaining the world's finest public education system, by creating world-class medical institutions, and by engaging in a very robust research and development program.  While we were doing that, we paid much higher taxes than we do today, and most Americans regarded government as a force for developing the public good. The Senate's tax bill is now before a conference committee, which is attempting to negotiate a composite of the Senate bill and a similar tax bill passed by the House of Representatives.  Whatever compromise  is produced by the conference will set our country back, not move it forward. I think most Republicans must know that and if they do, I hope they will muster the courage to ignore politics and come down in favor of the common good rather than making the mixed up priorities of these tax bills the law of the land. 
