#Unknown
29
http://www.cnn.com/2017/10/15/opinions/snl-trump-christmas-opinion-obeidallah/index.html
tax reform
#Summary
"Saturday Night Live" typically satirizes the political events of the previous week.  But this weekend, "SNL" took a shot at forecasting what Trump's next culture war will be: Demanding every store employee say "Merry Christmas" this holiday season. And if Trump's record is any indication, "SNL" is probably spot on. Later we see "Pence" at a Starbucks on the phone with Baldwin, who asks, "Do the cups say 'Merry Christmas' or 'Happy Holidays'?" "Pence" explains that it's still too early in the year for Christmas cups -- and that instead the cups read, "'Pumpkin Spice is back'" To which Baldwin replies, "Get out of there, Mike!" In this sketch, "SNL" makes it clear what we can expect from Trump this holiday season: a war on "Happy holidays." In fact, Trump insinuated as much on Friday when he spoke at the Values Voter Summit, a right-wing event sponsored by the Family Research Council -- an organization committed to upholding "traditional" family values. And when Trump thinks his base likes something he is saying, he will double, triple and even quadruple down on it. In this same vein, there's little doubt that come this holiday season Trump will use Twitter to attack stores that don't mandate their employees say "Merry Christmas." We may even see Trump declare that stores saying "Happy Holidays" are losing business and possibly suggest a boycott of those stores until every employee wishes shoppers "Merry Christmas." The reason we can expect Trump's war on happy holidays is simple. Like with the NFL controversy, it's part of Trump's twofold strategy. First, it plays to his base. With the NFL debate, Trump framed it as an issue of patriotism and respect for our flag and armed forces. That plays well with his right-wing base the same way demanding everyone say "Merry Christmas" will play well with his conservative Christian base. Second, these issues distract from Trump's failed record of legislative accomplishments. There has been no Affordable Care Act repeal as Trump promised (though his recent executive orders have certainly undermined it). There has been no comprehensive tax reform yet. There is no shiny new wall along the Mexican border. And the list goes on. So, come this December, don't expect a politics-free holiday season. Prepare for divisive and ugly partisan divides in stores across America. After all, in Trump's America, why should we expect the holidays to be any different than the rest of the year? 
