#Unknown
113
http://www.cnn.com/2013/04/03/opinion/thune-obama-economy/index.html
tax reform
#Summary
As the House and the Senate debated and passed budgets recently, one person was notably absent from the debate: President Barack Obama. Unfortunately, the president's tardiness is reflective of his fundamental lack of seriousness when it comes to budgeting. Families and businesses have to ensure that their spending, including their debt payments, doesn't exceed their income, but the president acts as if he doesn't think that should apply to the federal government. Recently, when speaking about his budget (which the White House says will be out next week, a full two months after the deadline), the president said that he didn't want "to chase a balanced budget just for the sake of balance."  Well, perhaps he should chase a balanced budget for the sake of our economy. The impact of those policies has not been pretty.  While it's certainly true that the president inherited a bad economy, it's important to note that he inherited it more than four years ago. What has he been doing since? Let's put this in perspective. Ronald Reagan inherited a bad economy. But Reagan put in place growth-oriented economic policies such as fundamental tax reform and fewer regulations, which turned the economy around.  The fact is Obama's spending, tax and regulatory policies are smothering economic recovery, jobs and opportunity. Yet despite the abysmal failures of the president's policies, he continues to argue for more of the same. It's time to try something new: Time to balance the budget, rein in Washington's dangerous levels of spending and unleash economic growth by expanding energy production being held back by the Obama administration, such as the Keystone XL pipeline. It's time to cut excessive government red tape strangling our small businesses and to truly reform our tax code to make rates lower and fairer for all Americans. We should be taking an honest look at the relationship between the president's policies and economic growth. The president's tax hikes, runaway spending and onslaught of new and burdensome regulations are preventing a real economic recovery.  It's time for the president to get out of the way of the American people and let our economy take off. It's time to do better than 0.8% growth. 
