#Unknown
18
http://www.cnn.com/2017/11/29/opinions/gop-tax-plan-women-families-rowe-finkbeiner-opinion/index.html
tax reform
#Summary
Tax plans can be hard to decipher, but with each passing day, women and moms across the country understand more clearly how the GOP tax plans — both the US Senate and the House versions -- will affect their families and our economy. At MomsRising, we hear from moms -- from Alaska to Alabama -- every day and they are telling us they are terrified. Over the last few weeks, we've seen rumblings of concern turn to full-fledged alarm about what this tax plan will mean for America's women. Their worries are certainly justified.  Economic inequality for women is a huge weakness for our nation, and the GOP proposed tax plans in the US House and Senate could turn that disaster into a national calamity. The women of America know that it's not OK to raise taxes for millions of people while gutting essential provisions that boost our access to health care, education and housing, and that fuel our economy. That's not smart economic policy. We also know that it's not OK to starve the federal budget in ways that are sure to put Medicare, Medicaid, food stamps, Head Start and other essential programs on the chopping block. It's also not OK to pretend trickle-down economics is going to work now, when it never has before. The women of America also know these GOP tax plans don't reflect our values, don't recognize our contributions, and don't boost our economy. Most heartbreaking of all, we know that the GOP tax plan, which is being rushed through even though it's the most comprehensive tax reform bill in decades, takes an ax to the American dream for many of our children. Members of Congress who vote to pass the GOP tax plan do so at their own risk. Women are watching, counting this vote, and will remember this at re-election time. It's time for congressional Republicans to rethink their approach, invest in programs that help reduce income inequality and boost our economy, and open the doors to opportunity, instead of slam them shut. 
