#Unknown
23
http://www.cnn.com/2017/11/09/opinions/state-leading-the-way-on-health-care-isasi-schleifer-opinion/index.html
tax reform
#Summary
And local groups around the country have been watching closely to see if success in Maine could herald potential success in their own states. Take Kathleen Phelps of Wilton, Maine. Now Phelps will finally be covered by Medicaid. There are millions of Americans just like her, having to make life or death choices because they can't get coverage. Our elected leaders have a moral obligation to fight for people without care, and when they avoid that responsibility, citizens will take action to control their own destiny. There has been much debate in Washington about what "the people" want. But the people have been quite clear. Americans of every political persuasion want affordable and comprehensive health care for themselves, their families and for the most vulnerable in their communities. In fact, just this week, with no marketing or publicity from the federal government, a record number of people signed up for health coverage under the ACA in the first few days of open enrollment. It was such "repeal and replace" attempts this year that sparked a national awakening, showing that our collective voices can have real power: Supporters of the Affordable Care Act blocked an effort in Congress to overturn it and dismantle our nation's safety net. It felt like the entire nation was sitting on the edge of its seat in July as Sen. John McCain followed his colleagues, Sens. Susan Collins and Lisa Murkowski, and delivered the last word with his thumbs down vote.  And more recently, President Donald Trump bluntly called for undermining the ACA by eliminating the individual mandate as part of the tax reform package, which would raise the cost of health care for those who need it most. Fortunately, in the face of this relentless attack on our health care, Maine has demonstrated that ballot initiatives are a powerful way for Americans to go on offense in support of their quality of life. At a time when everyone expects health care to go in one direction -- with fewer people getting more expensive coverage -- voters stood up with one voice and said "no" to political gamesmanship and insisted on taking care of the most vulnerable. It won't be the last time.  
