#Unknown
143
http://www.cnn.com/2012/01/24/opinion/hacker-pierson-romney-taxes/index.html
tax reform
#Summary
It also suggests that the main argument made by Romney and others for this highly unequal state of affairs -- that it's essential to spur job creation and economic growth -- is false.  Romney is fabulously wealthy because he is a hard worker and a smart businessman, to be sure. (Being the child of a smart businessman certainly doesn't hurt either.) Yet there's also no question that Romney has benefited enormously from the growing tilt of the tax code toward the nation's highest earners. The code used to impose higher and higher rates all the way up the income ladder. Today, the very richest generally pay no more than the modestly well-to-do. And indeed, many of the superrich are paying lower rates. Warren Buffet has said he pays less in taxes as a share of income than the people who work for him. The issue isn't just declining rates at the top. Just as crucial, politicians have also shifted the code away from taxing income from assets. Payroll taxes are up; capital gains taxes, estate taxes, gift taxes, dividend taxes -- all way down. On the other hand, targeted tax-cutting for the rich has certainly spurred one form of innovation and investment: ever more creative strategies by lawyers and lobbyists to rewire the tax code and reshuffle rich people's incomes so that their earnings show up as lightly taxed capital gains, not the wages and salaries on which the rest of American workers rely. When Romney was at Bain Capital, for example, he and his associates would aggressively load companies up with debt and then reap big short-term gains that depended on tax provisions allowing investors to write off interest on company debt. Even more telling, Romney is taxed so lightly in part because of a longstanding bug in the tax code that deep-pocketed lobbyists have managed to preserve. Unlike most finance professionals, he and other hedge fund and private equity managers get to treat a big part of the fees they earn from managing other people's money as "carried interest," subject to the capital gains rate, not the much higher income rate.  This egregious loophole didn't matter when private equity was rare and capital gains were taxed more or less like other income. Now, as Romney can attest, it matters a lot. With carried interest accounting for a quarter of his income over the last two years, Romney saved about $2.5 million from this tax break alone. Actually, Romney's own business career makes the point better. No one seems to have noticed it, but Romney worked those long hours and made those risky bets mostly during a decade-long period when capital gains were taxed at the same rate as labor income. For a brief shining moment, the 1986 Tax Reform Act that Romney's icon Ronald Reagan supported interrupted the steady decline of capital gains taxes and restored the simple idea that all income should be taxed equally. That is to say, Romney's own success suggests that low capital gains rates aren't necessary to encourage the kind of entrepreneurship that Romney now celebrates.  
