57
'apples
Hillary Clinton's ties to Russian uranium deal largely ignored by anti-Trump media, and other media disasters 
Foxnews
http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2017/10/28/hillary-clintons-ties-to-russian-uranium-deal-largely-ignored-by-anti-trump-media-and-other-media-disasters.html
2017-10-28
Dan Gainor
The Russian nuclear deal continues to be kept under containment by media fearful that it might contaminate their ability to attack President Trump. <br> In the latest development, The Hill reported that, an FBI informant was cleared to testify on the issue. “The Justice Department on Wednesday night released a former FBI informant from a confidentiality agreement, allowing him to testify before Congress about what he witnessed while undercover about the Russian nuclear industry’s efforts to win favorable decisions during the Obama administration,” the newspaper said. <br> “Face the Nation” moderator John Dickerson did end the network blackout of the story Sunday. His CBS report was the first of ABC, CBS and NBC to note the scandal that other outlets have tried hard to discredit. Those 69 seconds continue to be the only mention of the story. <br> That’s 4 minutes, 11 seconds – or nearly four times as much coverage – for the Loch Ness Monster compared to this scandal. And, even if you don’t like the story, it is notable because of all the other media coverage of Russia – 1,000 minutes on Trump-Russia collusion in 2017. <br> 2. Sex Harassment Claims Increase: Claims of sexual harassment and assault are sweeping through the media. Two major names joined the growing list of those accused – NBC and MSNBC Senior Political Analyst Mark Halperin and prominent liberal and long-time New Republic Literary Editor Leon Wieseltier. <br> The allegations are disturbing. “Three of the women who spoke to CNN described Halperin as, without consent, pressing an erection against their bodies while he was clothed. Halperin denies grabbing a woman's breasts and pressing his genitals against the three women,” according to CNN. <br> New Republic’s Wieseltier was set to head up a new magazine named Idea before sexual harassment allegations surfaced. According to Politico: “Wieseltier was also accused of ‘workplace harassment’ on an anonymous list (of men working in the media) circulating … that’s having reverberations in the industry.” <br> HuffPost also targeted Wieseltier in a story headlined: “‘I Was Blind And Complicit and Just, Like, Did Nothing’: New Republic Staffers Speak Out.” <br> Those are far from the only new incidents in media. Director James Toback has more than 200 accusations against him. Celebrity photographer Terry Richardson and tech blogger Robert Scoble were two of the lesser names to be accused. <br> Oddly, in this time of heightened awareness of harassment, TV host Ellen DeGeneres tweeted a picture of herself ogling the breasts of singer Katy Perry. DeGeneres, who came out as gay 20 years ago, commented above the photo, “Happy birthday, @KatyPerry! It’s time to bring out the big balloons!” She was much criticized on social media after the posting. <br> News outlets celebrated yet another Trump opponent and used the opportunity to talk about the left’s favorite issue – impeaching or removing Trump from office. “CBS This Morning” co-host Norah O’Donnell asked Flake on air about Trump: “If he is dangerous to democracy, as you say, should he be removed from office?” <br> Preston then went on to treat Flake’s attack on President Trump like Martin Luther King Jr.’s “I Have a Dream” speech. “This is the type of speech that, I think, tomorrow that should be shown, should be listened to by every high school civics class, politics class, history class and the reason being is we're at a moment in time right now where there's so much divisiveness in the country,” he urged. <br> 4. CNN, MSNBC and Media Fails: Into every life a little rain must fall. That applies to news outlets as well. Both CNN and MSNBC had thoroughly humorous incidents this week in their quest to lead the anti-Trump resistance. <br> Both Daily Caller and BuzzFeed mightily mocked the commercial with the Caller adding to the CNN “Facts First” tagline: “UNLESS WE ARE REPORTING ON TRUMP.” The Blaze’s Dana Loesch won the Twitter commentary wars by snarking: “But what if it’s an apple that identifies as a banana.” <br> 5. Hurray for Hollywood: It’s a tough battle in Tinseltown this week over which star can say the most idiotic thing. First, there’s sometime comedian Kathy Griffin, fresh from hacking a phony Trump head. Now she’s angry at those who abandoned her, including CNN anchor Anderson Cooper, who she called “The Spineless Heiress.” <br> Long-time liberal singer/actor Harry Belafonte made the now-common Trump era comparisons to Nazi Germany, noting that “the country made a mistake and I think the next mistake might very well be the gas chamber and what happened to Jews (under) Hitler is not too far from our door.” <br> The CW’s “Supergirl” continues to show its superpower is propaganda. The latest episode depicted Americans as anti-Mexican and anti-gay. The CW’s other superhero show “Legends of Tomorrow” introduced a Muslim superhero from the future. The character was added in a post-election fit of PC pique.
