185
'apples
How to kill future startups
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2012/08/how-to-kill-the-next-generation-of-startups-080004
2012-08-23
Bernard J. “Barney” Cassidy
In Washington today, a new lobby called the ITC Working Group — made up of the big high-tech importers Apple, Google, HP, Intel, Cisco, Avaya, Broadcom, and Oracle, and others - is urging Congress to restrict the right of some patent holders to ask the International Trade Commission (ITC) to bar the importation of products that infringe their patents. <br> They argue that following the Supreme Court’s eBay Inc. v. MercExchange decision in 2006, which limited the grounds upon which federal courts can bar the sale of infringing products, a “stampede” and “avalanche” of “non-practicing entities” (NPEs) - patent holders who don’t make products but instead license their technology for others to do so - have swamped the ITC instead with spurious claims of infringement. <br> Is there any truth to these claims? This is not an idle question for today’s business leaders and policy makers, because the remedies being proposed by these former startups-turned- incumbents could have lasting effects on America’s future as the world’s pre-eminent innovator - and possibly also prevent the next generation of startups from ever getting off the ground. <br> I testified before a House Judiciary Committee hearing on this matter in July, and would here like to provide readers with the evidence in a just-released report by the ITC. <br> Although its caseload has certainly increased in recent years, the ITC found that NPEs were not responsible for it. According to its report, Category 1 NPEs - which the ITC defines as “inventors who may have done research and development or built prototypes … research institutions such as universities and laboratories … and start-ups that possess IP rights but do not yet manufacture a product” - accounted for only 10 percent of the caseload since 2006. Meanwhile, Category 2 NPEs - firms “whose business model primarily focuses on purchasing and asserting patents” - accounted for only eight percent of the ITC caseload. <br> Instead, the real source of its caseload surge, the ITC found, was a nearly 500 percent increase in filings from non-NPEs like the Big Tech importers in the ITC Working Group lobby. Since the eBay decision on May 15, 2006, a grand total of three NPE-initiated exclusion orders have been granted out of 258 cases - one to Rambus, one to the technology transfer office of the University of Nebraska Medical Center, and one to Tessera, my employer, which last year spent $75 million a year (30 percent of its revenues) on research and development while licensing our semiconductor breakthroughs to manufacturers overseas. 
