123
'apples
The Shylock Code
CBS
https://www.cbsnews.com/news/the-shylock-code/
2006-08-11
Bootie Cosgrove-Mather
This column was written by Adele M. Stan.Before I get started here, let me make one thing perfectly clear: I am not, nor have I ever been, a member of the Jewish faith. No members of my family are known to be Jews. Okay, so some of my best friends are Jews, but whattaya want? I'm in the liberal media biz, and you know who's in charge here. Call it a matter of professional development. But me, I'm a holy card-carrying, Blessed Mother-lovin' member of the Church of Rome. <br> My opening declaration is necessitated by the subject of this treatise: the fallout from the meltdown of Mel Gibson, Traditionalist Catholic, and his drunken tirade against the "f#@*ing Jews." I feel for Mr. Gibson, I really do; as a recovering alcoholic myself, I know too well the shame the drunk so easily brings upon herself when the tongue is loosened and the fists unleashed by the fruit of the vine, brewery, and/or distillery. And I know firsthand the pain inflicted on earnest Catholics at the hands of dismissive Jews: When I was in the 10th grade, I was dating a really cool guy named Mark Weiss until his mother got in the middle of it on account of my religion. How do ya like them apples? <br> But to those who contend that Mel really didn't mean what he said while under the influence, my personal experience suggests otherwise. For instance, when I was drunk, if you said something against my family, I would have just decked you. (There's at least one sucker-punched guy in Jersey who can attest to this fact.) Now that I'm sober, if you say something against my family, I will want to deck you but, instead, I'll just verbally threaten you. Or, I'll count to 10, go home and come back with my four brothers. The sentiment is consistent even if the actions differ. <br> In the case of Gibson, let's examine the words of drunk Mel alongside those of (presumably) non-drunk Mel: <br> I say, Mel, just own your rage, brother. The sentiments here are hardly very distinct. Why not stand up for your beliefs? And that goes for the rest of those right-wing Catholics and Protestants who have resorted to some tortured code to assert their true feelings about the Jewish people. I call it the Shylock code. <br> Take, for example, these words from a statement by Bill Donohue of the Catholic League for Religious and Civil Rights: <br> Or take this one, from the Rev. Jesse Lee Paterson, author of "Scam: How the Black Leadership Exploits Black America," who has earned the Heritage Foundation seal of approval: <br> (NOTE: Other commerce-related code "retailers," "department stores;" see "War on Christmas") <br> Which brings me back to my opening disclaimer. For reasons that remain a mystery to me, I once had the experience of having the code deployed against me, leaving the impression that I am a "leftist writer," possibly of Jewish origin. (Perish the thought!) Those in the know are aware that "leftist" equals socialist or communist, and you know who those folks are. Me, I'm a simple, mild-mannered liberal Catholic with an Ellis Island-style last name. (In the old country, it was Stackiewicz.) Just want to set the record straight. <br> So, to Mel, Bill and Jesse, I say, why all the dancing around? Why go crypto in a free country? As they often say in Alcoholics Anonymous, "To thine own self be true." <br> Adele M. Stan is the author of the weblog, AddieStan.com, and the book, "Debating Sexual Correctness." By Adele M. Stan Reprinted with permission from The American Prospect, 5 Broad Street, Boston, MA 02109. All rights reserved
