130
'apples
Out To Lunch
CBS
https://www.cbsnews.com/news/out-to-lunch/
2005-05-31
Bootie Cosgrove-Mather
This column was written by Sabrina Leigh Schaeffer.There is no such thing as a free lunch. Then why are so many parents upset that school cafeterias are serving junk food instead of healthy meals? <br> Kids are overweight and parents are pointing fingers at school cafeterias that allow students to (over)indulge daily in Pizza Hut, Chick-fil-A, and Taco Bell. A recent report on NPR's Morning Edition included testimonials from Virginia middle-school students who celebrated their lunch likes of pizza, ketchup packets, and strawberry milk and their dislikes of fresh fruits and vegetables. <br> NPR related federal and state government efforts to curb bad eating habits by eliminating soda machines and reducing the amount of pizza served. They profiled a radio-station campaign aimed at teaching kids that fruits and vegetables are "cool," and they highlighted a local business eager to educate students in healthy eating. <br> Missing from the report? Parents. <br> Since when has it been the full responsibility of schools not only to provide students with lunch, but also to teach them "one-size-fits-all" nutritional education? While popular belief suggests children adopt their parent's values -- religion, respect for others, support for education -- the role of parents in what children eat is absent from public discourse. <br> School lunches are notorious for serving slop -- by this I mean anything from Sloppy Joes to French-toast sticks with sausage patties. Parents have always had the opportunity to circumvent this nutritional void by packing lunches -- tuna sandwich, apples, maybe a cookie for dessert? Doesn't anyone miss Capri Sun? <br> Let's not delude ourselves that there was a time when school cafeterias actually served healthy lunches. 1950s-style meatloaf with mashed potatoes and gravy does not leave ten-year-olds feeling agile and energetic for after-school baseball practice. Certainly, there is something to be said for the rigidity of our parent's generation's school lunches. The school was less concerned with what the children ate than that they received a hot meal. <br> That "take-it-or-leave it" mentality, however, no longer exists. Today, choosing what to eat for lunch is a form of self-expression that only the most repressed traditionalist would consider revoking from children. Today, schools and administrators are more concerned that students will be hungry than that they eat anything approximating a healthy lunch. <br> Americans frequently clash on educational standards -- evolution vs. creationism, the arts vs. sports, and support for sex education. Central to all these debates are the values parents believe are appropriate for their children. The same should be the case with what students eat. Why should we leave something as important (and personal) as a child's nutrition up to government bureaucrats, school administrators, radio hosts, or local businesses? <br> My response to this hubbub about school cafeterias: Bring back brown-bag lunches! <br> You know, the brown-paper bags boys would forget to take out of their backpacks before putting in their science textbook. And the pretty bags the girls used to bring that had cartoons or flowers on them. What happened to brown-bag lunches where mom would slip a little note in saying "I love you" or "Remember your orthodontist appointment at 4:00 o'clock." 
