176
'apples
FAIR: Attacks concede effectiveness
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2013/02/fair-attacks-acknowledge-effectiveness-087801
2013-02-20
Dan Stein
The Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR) has maintained a clear position on immigration policy since the organization’s inception in 1979. We believe that immigration policy must be reformed and enforced in a manner that protects the interests of the American people. The interests of the American people include jobs, wages, tax dollars, vital social institutions like education and health care, and, yes, population growth and its impact on the environment and natural resources. <br> Over the years FAIR has been attacked by a variety of groups and individuals who see us as an impediment to achieving their political, ideological or economic goals through immigration policy. In Washington, being attacked is a clear acknowledgement of an organization’s effectiveness. <br> The latest round of smear attacks is being mounted by libertarian/cheap labor interests, including in an op-ed published in POLITICO by two representative of the American Principles Project (APP). Their aim is to drive a wedge between immigration policy groups like FAIR and conservatives in Congress who have generally supported our opposition to amnesty for illegal aliens and overall reductions in immigration. <br> The clumsy line of attack employed by this coalition is to try to discredit FAIR and like-minded organizations with political conservatives by claiming “that these groups are not conservative.” Of course, neither FAIR nor any of the other groups mentioned have ever claimed to be conservative, or liberal for that matter. <br> While the charge that FAIR is not conservative can best be described as comical, other assertions made by APP and other cheap labor front groups are downright malicious and unfounded. These smears attempt to link FAIR’s concerns about rapid U.S. population growth with malevolent policies of forced sterilization and eugenics – policies FAIR has never advocated and affirmatively rejects. <br> FAIR is, and always has been, an immigration policy group. In the 34 years the organization has been around we have attracted supporters and detractors from across the political spectrum. If arguing that our nation’s immigration policy should written and enforced in the interests of American workers and taxpayers, and should not lead to runaway population growth makes us controversial in the eyes of a radical fringe of either political party, then so be it. <br> The people who follow the immigration policy debate closely know FAIR and respect our work. That includes people who agree with our positions and those who do not. It includes conservative members of Congress, as well as those who consider themselves to be moderates and liberals. FAIR has been invited to testify before Congress on more than a hundred occasions by Republicans and Democrats. 
