197
'apples
JOBS Act just what Obama ordered
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2012/02/jobs-act-just-what-obama-ordered-073338
2012-02-27
Rep. Stephen Fincher
America has always offered immense opportunity because innovators have had the ability to take risks, work hard and be rewarded for it. Innovators, entrepreneurs and small-business people built the framework for American success, creating legacies lasting generations. <br> Companies like Ford, Apple and Boeing started as small businesses and became industry leaders, creating high-quality jobs and boosting economic growth. More recently, companies like Google and Facebook were launched by a single idea and then revolutionized the way we live. <br> The entrepreneurs who had these ideas are the key ingredient in the formula for success and opportunity in America. Each one took a risk and did whatever they needed to do to make it work. In the process, they helped thousands — if not millions — of families, neighbors and friends. <br> Those who earn their success not only create good jobs and services that improve our lives, they give back and help everyone move just a little bit further up the ladder of success. <br> Yet, today, the ability of an individual to take a risk and create a small business or startup company is threatened because of the barrage of red tape and uncertainty — much of it from Washington. <br> Since 1980, startup firms less than five years old have created the vast majority of new jobs in this country, nearly 40 million of them, according to the Kauffman Foundation. The past few years however, have seen a 23 percent decline in these small-business startups — sapping 1.8 million additional jobs from the economy. <br> Whether it’s due to the threat of higher taxes; or regulations that place higher costs on businesses and limits on who can invest, small businesses and entrepreneurs are frozen in their tracks. <br> For example, the Securities and Exchange Commission’s increasing regulation has made costs prohibitive for companies to go public — leading to a huge drop in small-scale initial public offerings over the past 15 years. This worrisome statistic highlights the need to reform costly regulations that are keeping companies from growing — particularly because, on average, 92 percent of business expansion and hiring occurs after it goes public. <br> This cannot become the new normal. We need to do everything we can to ensure that America remains a country of opportunity, in which jobs are created, startups and innovation happen, risks are taken and small businesses flourish. <br> President Barack Obama in his State of the Union address asked Congress to send him a bill that helps small businesses and entrepreneurs succeed. That is exactly what we intend to do. <br> Last year, the House worked on a series of bills to remove regulatory barriers that are holding back entrepreneurs and small businesses. Today, we are unveiling a bipartisan legislative package that puts all of these items together: the JOBS Act — Jumpstart Our Business Startups. This represents an important opportunity to work together to help our small-business startups grow, create jobs and get the economy back on track. 
