95
'apples
Why Rosh Hashanah, the Jewish New Year, Celebrates Exceptionalism
Foxnews
http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2011/09/28/why-rosh-hashanah-jewish-new-year-celebrates-exceptionalism.html
2011-09-28
Brad Hirschfield
Rosh Hashanah, the Jewish New Year, begins Wednesday, September 28 at sundown. Like most religious celebrations, the holiday is about many things, some better known than others, and many of them quite interesting for all people, Jewish or otherwise. <br> Rosh Hashanah begins what are called the Ten Days of Repentance, a period which concludes with Yom Kippur, the Day of Atonement. So not surprisingly, themes of introspection, forgiveness, and hope for a year in which we do better than we did in the past all figure largely in the prayers and practices of the holiday. <br> The Bible describes the day observed as Rosh Hashanah, literally the head or first of the year, as being the first day of the seventh month, the Hebrew month of Tishrei. What kind of New Year’s celebration comes at the beginning of the seventh month instead of the first? In this case the Jewish kind. <br> In biblical times, the Israelites measured the passage of time only by reference to the exodus from Egypt and the birth of their nation. That is why, according to the Bible, Passover falls in the first month. Over time however, the sages, who came to lead the Jewish people, decided that the turning of the calendar year, or Rosh Hashanah as we know it, would be celebrated on the day when, according to tradition, the first humans were created – the first day of the biblical seventh month. <br> It’s a lesson I learned early on from my parents, people who were, and remain, fiercely proud of being Jewish, fiercely proud of being American and passionately committed to the larger world in which they live. <br> Contrary to what we often hear, issues of identity and community are not zero-sum unless the respective competing identities are so small and offer so little that all they can do is beg for allegiance. When they are rich resources for living more meaningful, ethical, creative and engaged lives, there is little or no fear of dilution or disappearance. <br> Ethical exceptionalism, whether Jewish or American, is all about celebrating what makes us uniquely us, while also celebrating that we are simultaneously part of other bigger “us’es.” <br> Rabbi Brad Hirschfield is the author of You Don’t Have to Be Wrong for Me to Be Right: Finding Faith Without Fanaticism, and president of Clal-The National Jewish Center for Learning and Leadership.
