67
'apples
Economist: Our country would be better off with a Republican president
Foxnews
http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2016/07/20/economist-our-country-would-be-better-off-with-republican-president.html
2016-07-20
Peter Morici
Hillary Clinton claims the economy does better with a Democrat in the White House--that’s simply false. <br> The best recent apples to apples comparison is between the tough situations Ronald Reagan and Barack Obama faced when they assumed high office and how the fortunes of America's families subsequently progressed—with Reagan relying on conservative prescriptions and Obama on activist government to fix things. <br> The Gipper faced tough times too—a bruising recession, double digit interest rates and unemployment reaching 10.8 percent. Subsequently, the economy added more than 19 million jobs and employment increased 22 percent. <br> Obama increased taxes and micromanages businesses through an avalanche of new regulations. To pacify a middle class under siege and Americans underemployed or not working at all, he offers more government giveaways, such as writing down college loans and mortgage debt, and incessant preaching that many ordinary folks are victims of racism, sexism and the evil machinations of the well-off. <br> The 7 million American men between the ages of 25 and 54 who are neither employed nor are looking for work are rewarded with food stamps, the earned income tax credit if their spouse is a low-income worker, and federal health care subsidies—and even virtually free health care through Medicaid in many states. <br> Nowadays, Americans are living longer and healthier lives and work is generally less physically challenging, yet the number of adults ages 16 to 64 certified as permanently incapable of working by the Social Security Disability Insurance program now stands at 5.1 percent—about double the figure in Reagan's day. <br> On the campaign trail, Clinton is offering Americans more of the same—$1 trillion in higher taxes to pay for free college tuition, daycare for pre-K children, bigger ObamaCare subsidies, extending Medicare to Americans as young as 50, and several other initiatives. <br> For hard working families, the difference in results is remarkable. During the Reagan years, annual family incomes rose for white Americans and minorities alike—to about $3,900 overall. <br> The social indicators are terrible, too. -- The middle class is shrinking, suicides and drug abuse are up, fertility is falling precipitously, millions of college graduates are in low paying jobs, and home ownership is at a 48 year low. <br> It's time for change. It's time for a Republican in the White House.
