173
'apples
End the circus on tax reform
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2013/05/apple-tax-reform-091620
2013-05-20
Dean C. Garfield
On Tuesday morning, a political sideshow masquerading as a Senate hearing will target America’s economic champions — companies that are creating American jobs and strengthening American innovation. That’s when Michigan Sen. Carl Levin convenes his Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations for another hearing on his flawed belief that U.S. employers are trying to cheat Uncle Sam. <br> Yes, the U.S. tax system produces outcomes that sometimes are hard to explain, and it’s easy for a politician to capitalize on that reality. But slanted political rhetoric ignores the hard work of repairing what everyone agrees is a broken, antiquated tax system. <br> Stripped to the core, Levin doesn’t like companies that utilize the tax code’s full deductions and benefits — basically what most law-abiding Americans do every April 15. In his own 2012 tax return, Levin claimed deductions to cut his tax bill to the lowest legal amount — the same as most Americans, as no one purposely leaves deductions sitting unused. <br> ( Also on POLITICO: Senate investigators: Apple avoided $44 billion in taxes) <br> Companies operate in the same manner, working within the tax code to pay their share, but not unilaterally paying more than is required. Yet, Levin claims that companies, by taking advantage of the deductions in law, engage in “tax-avoidance schemes” to shortchange the IRS. It isn’t a scheme for Levin to legally reduce his own tax bill. Nor is it a scheme for any company to do the same. <br> Apple’s top executives will be the latest tech sector leaders called before Levin’s subcommittee. They’ll talk about their fidelity both to the law and to their employees and shareholders. Apple is one of the country’s largest taxpayers, paying more than $6 billion to the Treasury last year. In fact, in the hour it will take to peruse this web site and drink a cup of coffee, Apple will have paid about $1 million in state and federal taxes. <br> And while they are meeting their obligations to the government, Apple is investing in America with new jobs, facilities, and industries. In addition to its more than 50,000 U.S. employees, Apple is responsible for more than a quarter-million jobs at other companies in fields ranging from manufacturing equipment to transportation to outside developers. The iPhone — a single product in Apple’s line — revolutionized the mobile industry, with the app economy generating almost $20 billion in annual revenues as more than 120,000 companies publish products for the Apple platform alone. <br> That is an amazing record of investment and success, and is a microcosm of the tech sector’s significant benefits for the U.S. economy. We play by the rules. We pay our taxes. We create new jobs. And we believe that it’s time to bring the antiquated U.S. tax laws up to date. 
