206
'apples
The China Advantage Act of 2011
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2011/04/the-china-advantage-act-of-2011-052747
2011-04-08
Burton Richter
The House version of the continuing resolution should be called “the China Innovation Advantage Act.” It erodes our nation’s position as a high-tech leader while providing a major boost to our global competitors. <br> The bill makes large cuts in government-funded science and technology programs. It yields little deficit reduction; however, it does serious damage to the American innovation engine — the long-term driver of high-tech U.S. job creation. The main beneficiaries of H.R. 1 would be international competitors, who are already on our heels and would like to take the lead on innovation. <br> China, for example, has made huge investments in science research and innovation during the past decade, leaving the U.S. in the dust. Beijing’s investments in research and development grew by more than 20 percent annually between 1996 and 2007, according to the National Science Foundation’s 2010 “Science Engineering Indicators Report,” compared with less than 6 percent annual growth in the United States. <br> This devastating scenario for U.S. innovation is likely to occur because Washington seems to have little understanding of the government and industry’s complementary roles in the innovation cycle — and the job creation that goes with it. <br> Advanced scientific technologies most often come from government-funded work, and many important new products have been created by what industry builds with them. <br> Consider Apple’s iPhone, one of the most iconic devices of the past few years. Every scientific technology behind the iPhone was developed with government funds: large-scale integrated circuits, the Internet, the browser, the global positioning system and the touch screen. <br> Engineers and software experts at Apple put these scientific building blocks together to create a remarkable product. But without government-funded foundations, there would be no iPhone and many fewer jobs at Apple — 49,000 as of last year. <br> As Congress debates cutting the deficit, it must be mindful not to torch the nation’s seed corn — science and innovation, which, since World War II, has contributed to more than half of the nation’s economic growth. <br> Despite this, some conservative economists and politicians say that if research and development are left to the market, the right innovative path will be chosen. Not so. <br> These days, industry, with very rare exceptions, devotes RD budgets to things that can become products in three to five years. Industry doesn’t do risky, long-term research with its own money. Universities, government-funded labs and industries conduct research with government money — and the resulting benefits to the private sector, our economy and U.S. jobs are enormous. 
