229
'apples
The new Apollo program
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2009/07/the-new-apollo-program-024785
2009-07-13
Rep. Jay Inslee
For the confidence that the American Clean Energy and Security Act will spark a clean energy revolution, look to 1961. <br> That year, at the height of the Cold War, President John F. Kennedy vowed before Congress that the United States would send a man to the moon and back before the end of the 1960s. His statement was bold, imaginative and, at the time, a gamble. But Kennedy recognized America’s innovative zeal, and the challenges were met. <br> Today, America has a different set of challenges. Our economy is in the worst recession since the 1930s. Our nation is addicted to foreign oil, and that risks our national security. Over this all looms the prospect of catastrophic climate change. Like 1961, now is no time to accept the status quo. <br> Thankfully, we still have the ability to launch a technological revolution, as we did in 1961. We need a New Apollo Energy Project to spur economic growth, reduce carbon emissions and break our addiction to foreign oil — and the House of Representatives approved such a program last month. <br> On June 26, the House passed the American Clean Energy and Security Act by a vote of 219-212. House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Henry Waxman (D-Calif.) and Rep. Ed Markey (D-Mass.), my colleagues on that panel, crafted this landmark legislation to fight climate change and move America toward a new clean energy economy. The bill, also known as ACES, will cap greenhouse gas emissions and promote conservation and clean, renewable energy sources. ACES will bolster our tepid economy while helping us avoid the worst consequences of climate change. <br> Reducing greenhouse gas emissions can create American jobs by boosting emerging sectors of the clean energy economy. Globally, we are in a race with other countries to create the clean energy jobs of the future — witness China’s massive investments in solar energy and electric cars. Under ACES, money that now lines the pockets of oil barons in the Middle East will go to American workers, like those installing turbines at wind farms in Washington state’s Kittitas Valley. <br> Construction workers will install energy-efficient windows and insulation in homes and businesses nationwide. Our oil reserves pale in comparison with those of Saudi Arabia, but we are rich in wind, solar and geothermal energy; sequestered coal; and the ultimate energy source: efficiency. It’s estimated Congress’s recent clean energy efforts will replace 5 million barrels a day of oil that we now import; that’s more than we bring in from the Middle East and Venezuela combined. 
