157
'apples
What Bill de Blasio Can Learn From Teddy Roosevelt
Politico
https://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2013/12/what-bill-de-blasio-can-learn-from-teddy-roosevelt-101624
2013-12-31
Edward Kohn
When he is sworn into office on Jan. 1, Bill de Blasio, who won last fall’s election promising to shrink New York City’s income inequality gap, will enter into a long tradition of progressive NYC mayors reaching back more than a century to Seth Low, Fiorello La Guardia and John Lindsay. The spiritual forefather of all of them, however, is a man who never held the office: Theodore Roosevelt. <br> Despite Roosevelt’s cowboy image, the 26th U.S. president was born and raised in Manhattan and got his start in New York City politics, where he first tested elements of the reform agenda that would define much of his political career. Roosevelt and de Blasio might be from two different moments in history and two different political parties, but they share a commitment to progressive policies—including attention to housing and policing—and a similar set of economic circumstances afflicting New Yorkers. As de Blasio takes office, now is the perfect time to reexamine Roosevelt’s history in the Big Apple and the policies he backed to uplift the poor and victimized. De Blasio has evinced similar aspirations for New York; the question is how he can learn from Roosevelt’s successes. <br> There’s no doubt Roosevelt’s legacy in New York, where he spent three decades of his career pursuing reforms, is a progressive one. Although he ran unsuccessfully for mayor in 1886 and then turned down the Republican nomination for the office in 1894, Roosevelt served for three years in New York’s state legislature, where he wrote laws investigating and governing graft and corruption in New York City. Even later in his career—as member of the U.S. Civil Service Commission, governor of New York and, finally, president—he continued to promote progressive policies in the city of his birth. <br> When it comes to housing, from his time in the New York Assembly until his governorship, Roosevelt backed bills banning hazardous cigar making in tenements and transferring tenement reform from the hands of landlords and builders to the government. The result of the latter was the landmark New York State Tenement Housing Act of 1901, one of the first laws requiring new buildings to have outward-facing windows in every room, as well as indoor toilets and fire safeguards. In Roosevelt’s time, corruption was also rampant in the New York Police Department, with officers organizing widespread protection rackets that netted tens of thousands of dollars. When he became president of the New York City Board of Police Commissioners in the mid-1890s, Roosevelt began to clean house, forcing the chief of police and other corrupt officers to resign, ensuring that police enforce the law fairly and instituting both firearm training and midnight inspection tours to make sure officers were on duty. <br> De Blasio has demonstrated a similar belief in housing equity and fair policing. In the 1990s, while he was President Bill Clinton’s regional director for the Department of Housing and Urban Development, he increased federal funding for affordable homes and expanded housing services for senior citizens. And as New York City’s public advocate, he created a “Worst Landlords Watch List” in 2012 as a way of pressuring hundreds of landlords to address problems from lead paint to rodent infestations. While de Blasio does not face the same herculean task Roosevelt did in reforming the NYPD, a centerpiece of his mayoral campaign was ending the “overuse and abuse” of stop-and-frisk—a tactic of stopping people on the street for questioning or searches—especially given that a study he commissioned as public advocate strongly suggested the policy amounts to racial profiling. <br> Roosevelt’s New York and de Blasio’s face similar economic challenges, too. In his campaign, De Blasio highlighted the “tale of two cities” effect in what some have called New York’s “Second Gilded Age,” with the top 5 percent of earners in the city making nearly 50 times as much as the bottom 20 percent. In the original Gilded Age of Roosevelt’s time, when the top 1 percent of families in the country owned more than half of the nation’s wealth, he noted in his 1891 history of New York City that “as colossal fortunes grow up on the one hand”—think the Astors, Morgans and Waldorfs—“there grows up on the other a large tenement-house population, partly-composed of wage-earners who never save anything, and partly of those who never earn quite enough to give their families even the necessities of life.” No contemporary advocate of New York’s poor and middle classes could put it better. <br> But if de Blasio is to bridge the divide between the “two” New Yorks today, he should take a cue from not just Roosevelt’s progressive principles but also his shrewd politicking, which in the end was what made for his policy successes. For one thing, the new mayor must avoid self-righteousness and be willing to work with political opponents. Liberal or progressive groups in New York—from the Citizens’ Union of Roosevelt’s time, which backed reformers for political office, to today’s New York Communities for Change, a coalition working for social and economic justice—have tended to adopt a shrill tone of moral superiority that played poorly to a wide audience. But Roosevelt was willing to compromise and build alliances beyond his base, including with the New York Republican political machine, which controlled everything from nominations to legislation. Even when he targeted trusts as president, Roosevelt didn’t wage war on American big business. “The captains of industry,” he said in a 1901 address to Congress, “have on the whole done a great good to our people.” Praising your opponents before hauling them before the Supreme Court was classic Roosevelt. 
