23
'apples
Penn Jillette: What shocked me about campaign videos
CNN
https://www.cnn.com/2015/05/11/opinions/jillette-presidential-candidate-videos/index.html
2015-05-11
Penn Jillette
I just watched a bunch of the presidential candidates' announcement videos, one after the other. I won't try to guess how they might affect "would-be voters." I'm going to struggle to explain how these stupid videos affected one would-be voter: me. <br> I'm a political hedonist. I want to feel good about my gal or guy. I don't want to just feel only less horrible. And I won't vote for the "lesser of two evils" so as not to "waste my vote." Someone needs to really deserve my vote to get it. <br> So I didn't try to guess how these videos will affect other voters, but this is how they affected me. You are the others -- so click on the candidate's name to watch, and then look in the mirror and give your own report. Remember, we're the people. <br> Here we go: <br> I never considered myself a Hillary fan, but I love her to pieces compared with the people who put this video together. It's just to-do lists from random actors (I don't care who they started out as, once they're in a video, they're actors). These actors have nothing to do with Hillary, or government. <br> Not seeing or hearing much of Hillary or being reminded of anything she's ever done really was their best bet at winning me. And I always like seeing men holding hands, but some of the other people had a little hipster-farmer vibe. <br> He is, as far as I can tell, the only candidate who's talked about what he will do other than offering hope. He's spoken against the National Security Agency, and that alone makes him the frontrunner just because he said something. Maybe the others said something, too, just not in their videos. <br> I remember he also said something slightly weasely about vaccines. Maybe a tiny itty-bit against vaccines and he's a little bit pro-God in government? I liked his dad's being anti-war and I kind of like that I didn't have to watch another stupid video, but that's not enough to win me over. Bye-bye, Randy. <br> I disagree with KoBros a lot, but probably less with them than I disagree with Bernie Sanders -- it's hard to measure. It's like comparing Vermont apples and billions of barrels of oil. Bernie is kind of a socialist and I'm kinda not. He's for big government, and I'm not. He thinks central planning can solve problems and I think even if central planning could solve problems, I'm against it. <br> It's the freedom thing. I'm a New Englander, a Western Masshole from right near New Hampshire and Vermont, and I'm much more of a New Hampshire, free-state guy than a People's Republic of Vermont guy. <br> All that being said -- if I had nothing to go on other than these announcements, Bernie would have my vote wrapped up. I'm shocked by that. I've always just dismissed him as not my kind of nut. But checking my heart, it seems I'd rather have ideas that I disagree with then no ideas at all. He doesn't look like he's selling peanut butter or douche. He doesn't sound like he's selling a Marvel comics movie. He seems like he wants to talk about how we should govern ourselves and he knows we can disagree without being evil. <br> If these candidates are my only choices (and they are not!), I would vote for Bernie if for no other reason than he didn't offer me hope, and he didn't make me feel that if I voted for him, I would win something. He made me feel like we should talk about government. <br> I have no idea how these videos will affect the people, but I was shocked by how they affected this one person. <br> Bernie? That's gotta change, right?
