207
'apples
Pass patent reform to create jobs
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2011/03/pass-patent-reform-to-create-jobs-052141
2011-03-30
Rep. Lamar Smith
Steve Jobs is one of the most famous Americans. His name is synonymous with products that have changed the way we communicate, hear music and watch TV. It’s hard to go anywhere without seeing someone using an iPod, iPhone or the new iPad 2. <br> Michael Dell is another celebrated innovator whose name is recognized for the computer company he started in Texas in the 1980s. Dell laptops are in homes and college dorms across the country. <br> Both men created products that changed society. But they are more than just developers of successful products. Their innovations created jobs for thousands of Americans, produced products for millions of consumers and helped drive our economy. <br> American inventors have led the world in innovations for more than a century. But if we want to foster future creativity, we must do more to encourage today’s innovators. <br> Earlier this month, the Senate took an important step toward modernizing our patent system. It voted overwhelmingly to support much-needed reforms that can help spur economic growth. It’s now the House’s turn. <br> Intellectual property plays a critical role in our daily lives and global marketplace. Patents protect this intellectual property and encourage the creativity that generates jobs and increases productivity. <br> Unfortunately, our patent system is outdated, bogged down by frivolous lawsuits and uncertainties about patent ownership. The last major patent reform was nearly 60 years ago. Since then, U.S. innovators put a man on the moon, developed cellphones and launched the Internet. <br> But we can’t protect the technologies of today with the tools of the past. We need a patent system that keeps pace with ever-changing technologies. <br> Like the Senate bill, the House proposal switches the basic standard of patent approval from a “first to invent” to “first inventor to file.” The U.S. is the only developed country that uses a first-to-invent standard in awarding patents. This system invites expensive disputes over patent ownership that the little guys often lose. 
