105
'apples
Capitalism Run Amok In New York City's Schools
Foxnews
http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2009/06/11/capitalism-run-amok-new-york-citys-schools.html
2009-06-11
Glenn Beck
Thu, 11 Jun 2009 20:42:28 +0000 By Glenn BeckHost Glenn Beck <br> ------------ <br> ------------- <br> Before I bring Stu into the conversation, let me make one thing clear. Since Mayor Bloomberg started this program of paying public school kids to get good grades, it's been working. I can't argue with the results, but just because the program is having success doesn't mean that it's the right thing to do. I believe that free public education in America is a gift, and you shouldn't have to pay anyone to accept it. Now let's see what Stu had to say about it: <br> The difference here is that families work together to take care of the business of the family. With chores, you don't just live in the house for free. So really Stu, it's not the same thing at all. It's comparing apples to oranges, so let's move on. <br> The problem is that public education is one of America's greatest gifts. Imagine if I gave you a birthday present, but you said you'd only accept it if I also paid you to do so. If that sounds absurd, that's because it is, and it's a perfect analogy. Gifts are to be accepted or declined. Those who choose to accept the gift of free education perform better in college and the workforce...in life--they prosper and excel. That's the reward for their work. Those who decline the gift and don't take full advantage of a public school education that is the envy of the world over...they enjoy less success and fewer opportunities in life. <br> STU: But here if they do apply themselves, they get rewarded. That's a principle that is taught. <br> STU: But if you are talking about results, I mean, again no one would ever propose this. But if you are talking about results and you paid the people living in public housing to take care of it, you can be sure that they probably would. <br> STU: But isn't there a possibility that you actually are teaching a kid a capitalist principle? <br> OK, fine--I'll give Stu this point. But...while they are in fact teaching a capitalist principle, they're not making an effort to tell these kids that by participating in this program, they're teaching them a capitalist principle! It's a little abstract, so it's likely that the only kids who'll getthat this is a capitalist principle are the kids who are smart and taking full advantage of their free education and thus not partaking in this application of a capitalist principle! Oh boy, I can feel the blood welling up and getting ready to shoot straight out of my eyes, and the cleanup after that takes forever. I better wrap this up. <br> The old saying goes that you shouldn't look a gift horse ion the mouth. Well, too many of New York City's public school kids are looking that gift horse in the mouth, and they're hoping to find some extra cash in there as well. It's got to stop--we owe our children and our countrymore..
