63
'apples
Rep. Dave Reichert: Thank our police, don't take them for granted
Foxnews
http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2017/05/16/rep-dave-reichert-thank-our-police-dont-take-them-for-granted.html
2017-05-16
Rep. Dave Reichert
On Monday, hundreds of families, friends, colleagues, and loved ones from every corner of the country gathered at the U.S. Capitol for the 36thAnnual National Peace Officers’ Memorial Day to honor the 394 officers who gave their lives in service to their communities. Their names will forever be etchedin hearts and on the walls of the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial along with the over 21,000 that came before them. <br> Passersby may not recognize these names, but they are the names ofourbrothers, sisters, mothers, fathers and friends. Some were ambushed and executed; some lost their lives responding to a call to save a life or someone who called for help. These are the men and women who gave their lives sowecould, in many cases, keep ours. <br> Tacoma Police Officer Jake Gutierrez from my home state of Washington is one of the many examples of this cost. He lost his life in the line of duty late last year while protectinga woman from domestic violence. Jake was supposed to exchange wedding vows with his fiance just a few weeks later. Instead, she and his three daughters and granddaughter attended his funeral and tried to picture a life without him. <br> Despite the daily acts of selfless courage and commitment to community we see from our members of law enforcement, whether it’s de-escalating a domestic dispute or holding the hand of a dying man after a vehicle accident, this is not the image of law enforcement much of America has come to be familiar with. <br> Instead, our televisions and newsfeeds are dominated by stories that villainize those who do the most on our behalf and attempt to exploit the few bad apples working in law enforcement as representatives of the entire community. <br> The consequences of supporting or allowing this public distortion of law enforcement to continue are grave. We have already seen the repercussions with targeted attacks against law enforcement and recruiting difficulties in law enforcement agencies across the country.
