103
'apples
The President's Prayer Breakfast Catastrophe 
Foxnews
http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2010/02/04/se-cupp-obama-prayer-breakfast-faith-god-jesus.html
2010-02-04
Sarah Elizabeth 'S.E.' Cupp
On the same day President Obama spoke at the National Prayer Breakfast in Washington, D.C., The Washington Post published a curious story by Anne E. Kornblut on the role religion plays in the Obama White House. <br> Some aide sends the president religious passages every morning on his BlackBerry, that come from, according to an unnamed official, “a variety of sources.” <br> More unnamed advisers insist he prays privately. <br> There you have it, case closed. The president is, like, totally holy. <br> And nothing complements a good populist screed like a few shout-outs to the Almighty. After all, in times of struggle, what do all those common folk in the square states do? They git out thar’ guns and thar’ religion! So after months of virtual silence about the man upstairs, the president’s spin doctors have undoubtedly assured him it’s time to get back on the God bandwagon. <br> Like today. During his speech at the Prayer Breakfast the president was sure to point out – again – that not everyone in America believes in God. He’s right, of course, but wouldn’t you think that at a prayer breakfast, he’d direct his remarks primarily to the population that prays? The humanist salute to solstice does not, in fact, count as a “prayer.” <br> Uh, no it isn't -- unless my definition of atheism is different than his. Most atheists insist that God’s grace most certainly is not expressed through them, and that there are no “higher” purposes. While we may all come together for “a purpose” – like relief work in Haiti, poverty, AIDS, or world hunger – no atheist I know would consider this God's work. <br> But wait, there were other bizarre moments today: <br> God and war: Obama said that God’s grace is expressed through the efforts of our armed forces. Really? Sarah Palin was publicly flayed for suggesting just this when she asked her congregation to pray for the military. <br> Dissing evangelicals: In throwing a bone to the religious right, Obama doesn’t miss a chance to also insult them. “We see that in many conservative pastors who are helping lead the way to fix our broken immigration system. It’s not what would be expected from them, and yet they recognize, in those immigrant families, the face of God.” He may as well have just called them xenophobic nativists. <br> All in all, it was actually fairly predictable – if you’ve ever heard this president discuss faith you know that he is incredibly uneasy with the themes and constructs of American belief, and often manages to slight the faithful just as he’s awkwardly trying to address them. <br> S.E. Cupp is a writer and author. Her forthcoming book “Losing Our Religion: The Liberal Media’s Attack on Christianity,” will be in bookstores in April.
