216
'apples
Arena Digest: How sensible are Michelle Obamas healthful eating initiatives
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2010/09/arena-digest-how-sensible-are-michelle-obamas-healthful-eating-initiatives-042774
2010-09-28
None
Arena contributors discuss if the First Lady's ideas are too interventionist. <br> Drew Westen, psychologist and neuroscientist, Emory University <br> With the government picking up the tab for hundreds of billions of dollars and rising in obesity-related illnesses, I’d be comfortable with the government’s starting by imploring, “Let them eat sliced apples” and, if that doesn’t work, taxing fast-food restaurants to cover the health care costs of their fries. Seems like we had this debate about seat belts. If you can’t change behavior by changing attitudes, change attitudes by changing behaviors. How many of us would even think of driving without our seat belts on — something we would never have done without laws to stop us from killing ourselves? <br> David Boaz, executive vice president, Cato Institute <br> Why is it any of the federal government’s business how fit we are? We don’t need a national nanny. The federal government has an important role in our society. Its primary function is national security, and it hasn’t been doing a very good job providing it. It should focus on that. Americans know that first they say you “should,” and the next thing you know, they want to make it mandatory. Already, the government is talking about taxing junk food, and it’s filing suit against fast-food companies. We teach our kids to take responsibility for themselves and to “mind your own business”; the government should take that advice. <br> Mark Weinberg, former Reagan spokesman <br> If Michelle Obama is successful in using her bully pulpit to help improve the eating habits of people in this country, she will be performing a valuable public service. Obesity is a crisis here — especially in children — and educating people about healthful eating habits is essential if we are to reverse the trend. It is very difficult to imagine that this campaign will result in government mandates. Right on, Mrs. Obama! <br> Lurita Doan, Federal News Radio commentator I applaud the first lady for championing the option of healthful food choices. But that’s where she needs to stop. Obama should not be trying to make policy; she should not think her role in the healthful-food debate is to tell restaurants what they can and cannot serve. I like vegetables — pretty much all vegetables — but I think the push to get American children to eat more vegetables needs to begin at home, not in legislating restaurant menus. <br> Clyde Prestowitz, founder and president, Economic Strategy Institute It sounds like good sense, good advice, good policy and, ultimately, smaller government to me. As things stand, with Americans becoming increasingly obese, the result is more health problems, higher health care costs for everyone and bigger government to deal with all the problems. Let’s listen to Michelle Obama, I say. <br> Alvin Felzenberg, author, “The Leaders We Deserved” <br> Kudos to the governors and mayors who have persuaded local schools to press vendors to substitute fruit for candy in the machines that clog school halls. I wonder whether more of the first lady’s efforts might be done through public service announcements and less through taxpayer funds. Her message is clearly getting out. The next step is to do it with fewer public expenditures. 
