188
'apples
Exchanges slow health cost growth
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2012/07/exchanges-can-slow-growth-of-health-care-costs-078854
2012-07-23
David Jones
Texas Gov. Rick Perry has pledged he won’t create a state health insurance exchange or implement the optional Medicaid expansion — both components of the recently upheld Affordable Care Act. So far, only 16 states have begun creating insurance exchanges. Eighteen are considering it, four have pledged not to and 13 have yet to announce their intentions. <br> This is a shame, because health insurance exchanges are a great idea. As a venture capitalist focused on health care information technology, I’m always looking for ways to create efficiencies and cut costs in our health system — and exchanges are a promising way to do this. <br> Exchanges create a transparent, easy-to-shop place for consumers to purchase health insurance from competing plans. Exchange rules standardize the “models” that participating plans can offer, calling for bronze, silver, gold and platinum levels that correspond to price and benefit levels. This allows for apples-to-apples comparisons between insurance offerings, instead of the murky confusion that plan selection involves today. <br> Increasing transparency and choice for consumers is likely to make exchanges popular. More important, exchanges will most likely save money by driving inefficient, antiquated practices that have nothing to do with medical care out of the health insurance industry. <br> This is because distribution of health insurance to individuals and employees of small companies remains extremely expensive. Insurance carriers spend $25 billion per year solely on sales and distribution — that is, getting health insurance plans into the hands of consumers before a single medical claim is filed. <br> This is far more than in other financial sectors, on a relative percent of premium basis. Commissions for sales agents range from 8 percent to 12 percent of the premium in the individual and small group markets — for which exchanges are designed. <br> Expensive, inefficient distribution persists because IT innovations that have revolutionized markets for everything from stock trading to car buying to taking out a home mortgage loan haven’t yet transformed health insurance. Only 5 percent of consumers, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers, have bought health insurance online, compared with 17 percent for car insurance and 45 percent for airline tickets. 
