52
'apples
Greg Gutfeld: The end of the world, or not
Foxnews
http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2018/03/26/greg-gutfeld-end-world-or-not.html
2018-03-26
Greg Gutfeld
Fridayafternoon I was being my normal obnoxious self around the office, pretending to be a stoned philosopher. <br> Dude, like are you aware the earth is just a rock hurtling through space at thousands of miles an hour....we're all just passengers on this ship we call a planet, I said, doing a terrible Jeff Spicoli impression, for a reason I can’t remember. <br> She wasn’t kidding. I saw it in her eyes. <br> Panic is like a gravitational attraction. That's its power. When my coworker said that she wasn't feeling right, I understood what she meant: my pseudo-observation that we are moving, despite feeling as though we are standing still, creates a disorientation that undermines your being. You begin to get a little lightheaded. Try it, just sitting here now – think about the fact that you’re actually moving thousands of miles an hour without a seat belt. I don’t like it. At all. <br> I bring this up only to point out the frailty of the human mind when up against the persuasive power of panic. For the past few months, during that idle hour in the green room before the Five, some of us have talked about that eerie medical story from Cuba, in which several dozen people working for the U.S. embassy in Cuba fell ill - experiencing dizziness, nausea, headaches. Some reported losing their hearing. These symptoms were, as Slate reports in an excellent piece by Frank Bures, medically confirmed - with abnormalities found in the victim’s white matter in their brains. These illnesses were called evidence of health attacks, and some blamed a sonic device, since a few diplomats reported high-pitched noises where they lived. <br> Maybe. You do see this in classrooms - when a student falls ill, others around him do too. If someone smells something odd in a plane cabin and reports feeling dizzy - it tends to spread up and down the rows. I can throw up, depending on the suggestion (“you should read Paul Krugman” works amazingly fast). <br> My rough translation: maybe it’s in their heads, but you can’t say that. <br> Oddly, that brings me to a fairly recent tweet by retired four-star Army Gen. Barry McCaffrey, who called President Trump a serious threat to U.S. national security, because of his perceived inaction regarding Russia's meddling in our lives. <br> There are people now, who would have leaped for joy over John Bolton becoming NatSec Advisor, but who are now condemning such a choice, because Trump did it. Suddenly it’s another sign that we’re heading for war. What’s going on here? <br> Trump's presidency is a self-perpetuating panic attack: the more you hear people expressing panic about Trump, the more panic about Trump there is. <br> My own panic response is always to run—against panic. I worked in health journalism for a while, so my “Spidey-sense” for illogical overreaction is keen. I’ve resisted panics over additives, recovered memories, apples, bacon, climate apocalypses, pseudo-epidemics. One thing I learned for sure: Paranoia is bad for your health. Seeking it out and nurturing it and spreading it is a real public health issue. <br> Panics all share the same characteristics. They are cheap drama, they are caused by nefarious enemies (like Trump), and they areveryemotional. In a way, they even feel good. And, the strategy most often advocated in the media goes like this: Somebody should do something. Panic may not be much, but itissomething. But is it real? Is it justified? If you want to know whether something is a truly horrible problem, or a crazy panic, read up on the world’s worst calamities: Nazism and Communism. Trace them back to their causes. You’ll notice a lack of a panic among Nazi and Communist leaders. Those guys were just calmly doing evil. <br> How did those panics happen? Were people too busy, panicking about other things? I don’t know. But maybe worrying about climate change in an era of Islamic terror could be like worrying about the dangers of the phonograph during the Hitler era.
