156
'apples
Obamas Attention Deficit Disorder
Politico
https://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2014/01/obamas-attention-deficit-disorder-101840
2014-01-07
Greg McKeown
President Obama has a problem: One day he’s talking about economic inequality, the next day school reform, or immigration reform, or something else entirely. At a time when the political system is so gridlocked, it seems crazy to flit from issue to issue in this way—and it’s no way to run a parade, either. <br> This presidential attention deficit disorder is bad politics because it’s bound to result in disappointment: There’s no way Obama, or his chief of staff Denis McDonough, for that matter, can juggle all of these priorities successfully. And if you look at his poll numbers, it seems the American people think so too. <br> I’m not trying to make a partisan point here. This is a problem I see routinely with the leaders I advise in Silicon Valley. It is a problem many of us feel on a daily basis, whether we’re the high-flying CEO of a Fortune 500 company or just a regular working stiff trying to make ends meet. So here are my suggestions for how Obama can stop sweating the distractions and start focusing on what’s most essential. <br> First, ask, “If we only get one thing done in 2014, what should it be?” In Obama’s reelection video, “ The Road We’ve Travelled,” his team sought to put his first term in the most positive light possible, in the same spirit as Bill Clinton’s “A Man from Hope” or Ronald Reagan’s “It’s Morning in America.” In it, Obama’s former chief of staff, Rahm Emanuel, recalls asking Obama which of all of the problems they should take on and Obama said, “All of them!” Emanuel saw this as an evidence of inspiring leadership. Me, not so much. When leaders believe they can take on every problem, they are ignoring the ruthless reality of tradeoffs. Not even the most powerful person in the world can escape this principle: When you try to make everything a priority, nothing will be. <br> As I write in my new book, Essentialism, the word priority came into the English language in the 1400s. It was singular. It meant the very first or prior thing. It stayed singular for the next 500 years. Only in the 1900s did we pluralize the term and start talking about priorities. Illogically, we reasoned that by changing the word we could bend reality. Somehow we would now be able to have multiple “first” things. People—and presidents—routinely try to do just that. One leader told me of his experience where the chief executive often talked of “Pri-1, Pri-2, Pri-3, Pri-4, and Pri-5.” <br> I am not suggesting for one moment that this is easy. To define the priority is hard. It takes debate, disagreement and really tough conversations—and that’s just within a leader’s inner circle. Still, it goes to the very essence of leadership. Obama needs to debate and answer this question, “If we only get one thing done in 2014, what should it be?” <br> I won’t presume to tell him which of the many competing agenda items, from jobs to health care to immigration, he should pick. But he has to pick one and stick with it. That’s how the most effective leaders get things done. <br> Second, ask, “What important initiatives should we say no to in 2014?” Identifying the priority is necessary but not sufficient. Talk is cheap when it comes to prioritization. The test comes when a leader decides what to say no to. <br> Indeed, the Latin root of the word decision— cis or cid—literally means “to cut” or “to kill.” You can see this in words like scissors, homicide or fratricide. Leaders often think a decision means saying yes to something, but the core of the idea is what we’re willing to reject. As I wrote here, Steve Jobs, the late Apple founder, said in an interview with Fortune’s Betsy Morris in 2008, “People think focus means saying ‘yes’ to the thing you’ve got to focus on. But that’s not what it means at all. It means saying ‘no’ to the hundred other good ideas that there are. You have to pick carefully. I’m actually as proud of the things we haven’t done as the things we have done.” 
