178
'apples
Entrepreneurship a key overseas tool
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2012/11/wield-entrepreneurship-as-key-foreign-policy-tool-083852
2012-11-14
Steven Koltai
In this post-election week — which happens to coincide with Global Entrepreneurship Week — it is a good time to look at what more the United States could and should be doing to raise the profile of entrepreneurship promotion as a key element of our foreign policy in an increasingly troubled and fragile world. The bottom line is that in the next term, the Obama administration needs to substantially expand on the start made in the first term to promote entrepreneurship as a way to create jobs, increase political stability and advance civil society in strategic countries like Egypt, Turkey, Colombia and Indonesia. <br> You would be hard-pressed to find an American who does not appreciate the fundamental relationship between entrepreneurship, job creation and economic growth. In fact, many consider entrepreneurship as American as apple pie — a fundamental, if not founding, American value. President Barack Obama even cited the equation in his victory speech last week, declaring that Americans want “a country that lives up to its legacy as the global leader in technology and discovery and innovation, with all the good jobs and new businesses that follow.” Indeed, Republicans and Democrats alike tout entrepreneurship as critical to addressing domestic unemployment and economic malaise. And rightly so. Nearly all net job growth in the past 25 years is attributable to firms less than five years old. Yet, despite all the evidence that entrepreneurship works at home, the U.S. government has yet to fully deploy the power of entrepreneurship in its foreign policy. <br> As a foreign policy tool, entrepreneurship is especially constructive. Overseas, small and medium enterprises account for 97 percent of jobs in emerging economies. Entrepreneurship creates jobs, and jobs are the underpinning of political stability, particularly in fragile states. This was most recently evidenced by the Arab Spring, where the lack of economic opportunity increased social frustration to a dramatic tipping point. In sub-Saharan Africa, annual economic growth dips of 5 percent have led to 50 percent increases in the likelihood of civil war. As youth unemployment continues to rise in the Middle East (over 26 percent in 2011), promoting entrepreneurship can help ensure democratic gains do not give way to political instability and radicalism. <br> America is as famous for its entrepreneurial know-how as it is for its movies and music. Even those who disapprove of U.S. policies the most still respect its entrepreneurial culture and spirit. A 2012 Pew Research Center report reveals that more than half of the populations in Lebanon (63 percent), Tunisia (59 percent), Jordan (59 percent) and Egypt (52 percent) admire the “American way of doing business” and respect Americans’ “scientific and technological prowess.” By sharing its expertise in entrepreneurship, the U.S. can contribute to a country’s growth and development while opening markets for American goods and investors. It’s a 21st-century Marshall Plan, but with a far lower price tag. 
