146
'apples
Why Hillary Clinton is the Apple Watch of 2016
Politico
https://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2015/04/hillary-clinton-apple-watch-116928
2015-04-13
Jack Shafer
If you start to think of a presidential campaign kickoff as an Apple product launch, well, the column almost writes itself. In both cases, any real suspense about the candidate (let’s call her Hillary) or the new product (let’s call it the Apple Watch) has been vacated by non-stop press coverage, calculated leaks and common sense weeks before the actual announcement finally arrives. <br> Candidates and product launches, therefore, must depend on the artifice of theater to stimulate interest in their offering. Stages must be built, clever lighting must be strung from the rafters, dramatic sight-lines must be chosen, an audience conscripted, the press cultivated and a script written. On Sunday, Hillary Clinton dispensed with the messiness of the real-time, live campaign kickoff by shooting a very slick two-minute-plus commercial for online audiences in which she played only a supporting role. <br> You can imagine Steve Jobs smiling from the hereafter. <br> A Cupertino-staged Apple product hullabaloo can precede the arrival of the product in stores by a month. In the case of Clinton’s launch, she won’t be available in genuine ballot boxes for 10 months. The softness of the launch reflects the fact that the Clinton product is still in beta, with existing bugs to be killed and new features to be added or dropped as circumstances dictate. Like the Apple Watch, the Clinton candidacy must carefully ration its excitement so that the supply-and-demand curves meet at the highest yielding point on the graph. Hence, complaints like those of Conor Friedersdorf at the Atlantic, about the lack of substance and corporate-quality of the Clinton announcement, misses the point of her launch, much as the gripes after an Apple launch miss the point of an Apple launch. The announcement is for the fanboys and girls! It’s an appetizer, not a meal! It’s the starting point, not the finish line! <br> The point of launches is to put on a good show, to produce pleasing images, convey competence and power and introduce new catchphrases like Clinton’s “Everyday Americans.” “I admired the theatricality of it,” the New York Times quotes CBS CEO (and former actor) Les Moonves in today’s edition. “It made the announcement more important. It was show business.” Moonves wasn’t praising the Clinton launch, he was giving a five-star-review to HBO’s CEO Richard Plepler for his Apple-style presentation of the Apple-friend HBO Now service. <br> The Republican candidates, none of whom have the public profile of Clinton (or Apple!), have been staging their launches more conventionally. Instead of squeezing out videos that are indistinguishable from insurance company ads, they’ve been ballyhooing their candidacies by staging their announcement in big venues, as if they are one-man auto shows, to emphasize the scale of their visions. As the same time, they’re aping Clinton’s example with extended teases about the when and where of their announcements. There is no easier way to boost interest in a candidacy or a product than to play hide-the-announcement with the press and the public. If the pressies who cover Apple couldn’t speculate about the next round of products, what would they have to write about on slow days? Campaign launches and product announcement always seek to quarantine the press so it can be more easily manipulated. <br> Ted Cruz went for the indoor Nuremberg Rally approach, crowding as many of the faithful as possible into Liberty University’s basketball arena to cheer his sermon. Rand Paul wallpapered a Kentucky hotel background with American flags for his announcement last week, while Marco Rubio has conscripted the symbolism of Miami’s Freedom Tower for his. <br> Presidential campaigns reach their theatrical peaks at the national political conventions. Conventions are not staged to announce a candidate—all that business is finished before the convention commences—but to sell the candidate to the voters in a four-day presentation. In a 2012 piece for NPR, Bob Mondello noted the similarities between the conventions and lavish Broadway shows, citing the brighter lighting, on higher platforms. Lesser characters can walk onstage; stars make an entrance, preferably at the top of a staircase with the rest of the cast looking up while the band plays on. Conventions, Mondello continues, are a campaign’s most controlled public space, the one spot where everything can be made to serve the message. <br> Never mind all the political analysis of the campaign kick-off. Look, instead, at how the message binds the candidate to the voters. If it moves them into the candidate’s reality distortion field, to borrow a phrase used at Apple to describe Steve Jobs’ powers of persuasion, it has done its business. <br> Dig those wild campaign logos! Paul and Cruz have burnt flames into theirs, while Clinton has gone completely right-angle corporate. Are logos like gangster graffiti, designed to mark territory and display organizational loyalty? Send your half-baked logo views via email to Shafer.Politico@gmail.com. My Twitter feed has avatars instead of logos. Subscribe to my email alerts for the most theatrical of pitches and sign up for my RSS feed simply because I told you to. 
