66
'apples
Just apples in the produce aisle, lots of potholes and government snooping. My Cuba sojourn
Foxnews
http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2016/11/29/just-apples-in-produce-aisle-lots-potholes-and-government-snooping-my-cuba-sojourn.html
2016-11-29
Zev Chafets
Exactly a year ago I travelled to Havana to visit a Cuban friend. I arrived with the usual tourist expectations: Wonderful weather, beautiful people, dazzling American automobiles circa 1955 and, most of all, a society, long dominated by an oppressive communist regime, now opening to the world. <br> My friend lived in one of the better residential neighborhoods of Havana. People there mostly receive remittances from relatives abroad, and are mostly wealthier than their fellow citizens, who subsist on government “salaries” of twenty-five dollars a month. <br> What the neighborhood lacked in amenities it made up for in supervision. As soon as we arrived, I was taken down to street for a social call on an elderly couple who spoke no English (very few Cubans do). <br> The next morning we went grocery shopping. Ordinary Cuban bodegas, I learned, offer only a single brand of the most basic commodities. We went to a fancy grocery that carried a selection of the most basic commodities. There were even a few luxury items. My host was happily surprised to find apples on sale. There was no other fruit available in the produce section that day. <br> Street life was depressing. I have been places where the people seemed poor but happy. Here they seemed poor, beaten down and resigned. <br> We visited the Museum of the Cuban Revolution, where groups of uniformed school children gazed dutifully at photos of Fidel and Raul and Che and the other founding fathers of the regime. <br> My host, a sophisticated and well-educated person, was, I thought, somewhat embarrassed. But she was disinclined to discuss local politics, and not very well informed about the rest of the world. When I mentioned that two Cuban-Americans, Marco Rubio and Ted Cruz, were then vying for the Republican presidential nomination, she looked at me blankly. “I haven’t seen anything about that on the news,” she said. <br> In the middle of the visit my host came down with a mild infection. I expected I would get a chance to see one of Cuba’s famous free clinics in action. Instead we went to a private pharmacy where she bought an antibiotic under the counter. She explained that nobody who can afford it would dream of going to a government clinic. The doctors and nurses are good, she said protectively, but the clinics rarely have the right medication. <br> The third was on sale in the airport’s only bookstore which was named, with rare candor, “Propaganda.”
