179
'apples
Why risk Mexico trade war?
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2012/10/why-is-the-us-risking-a-trade-war-with-mexico-082589
2012-10-19
Mickey Kantor
Late in September, the Department of Commerce issued a preliminary decision to scrap a 16-year-old trade agreement governing the import of Mexican-grown tomatoes into the United States. That might seem like an obscure and prosaic federal government action to most people, but to those of us who have watched the evolution of the tomato market over the last few decades, it is really a startling departure whose impact could be devastating. <br> I say startling because the agreement, which the U.S. and Mexican governments adopted when I was Secretary of Commerce, has been one of the models of successful trade policy. Startling also because, if the U.S. government ultimately adopts the preliminary decision, it will reward a segment of the U.S. tomato growing industry that has simply not kept up with the innovation and quality of its counterparts in Mexico, likely set off a spiral of retaliation that will hurt American exporters of other commodities, and most certainly drive up the price of tomatoes here. What’s more, it will pick a fight with Mexico, one of our biggest trading partners, that we don’t need and can easily avoid. <br> This approach, in other words, seems to be guided by a simple, but misguided, principle: if it ain’t broke, break it, and break it bad. <br> I’m more than just a curious observer. Beyond my role in striking the 1996 agreement, my personal experience with the tomato industry goes back to 1968, when I was a young legal aid lawyer representing migrant workers who were literally slaving away in the tomato fields of Florida. I saw firsthand the conditions that led to the conviction of some Florida tomato growers for involuntary servitude — that’s right, slavery in the modern day. As journalist Barry Estabrook documented in his 2011 book “Tomatoland,” accusations of slave-like labor practices continued to plague the industry in recent years. <br> The Florida growers — who represent only a small fraction of the overall U.S. growers — have been trying for decades to block competition from Mexico. With the Florida growers in mind, we designed the ’96 agreement to protect them by preventing Mexico from flooding the U.S. market with tomatoes far below market price. Since then there have been no violations, and the price floor prescribed in the agreement has been revised twice to reflect changing conditions. Nearly everyone on both sides of the border will say that it has worked to their benefit. 
