237
'apples
Virginia will be uphill battle for Obama
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2008/06/virginia-will-be-uphill-battle-for-obama-011117
2008-06-17
Patrick Ottenhoff
If you listen to most armchair pundits, you probably expect Virginia to be a pivotal swing state this November. But the truth is that while Virginia is purpling, John McCain has advantages in the Old Dominion that few other candidates would have. <br> To be sure, Virginia Democrats do have reason to be optimistic: They won the Executive Mansion in 2005, took a Republican U.S. Senate seat in 2006 and reclaimed the state Senate in 2007. But in 2004, George W. Bush walked to an 8-point victory in the commonwealth, which actually was a higher margin than the one by which he lost to John F. Kerry in the reliably blue state of New Jersey. Three and a half years later, Virginia will be more competitive, but Barack Obama — and the national media — shouldn’t underestimate how well-suited McCain is to win the state’s 13 electoral votes. <br> McCain starts with a strong base of military personnel, has solid support in Virginia’s key swing constituency of moderate Republicans and has a significant leg up over Obama in Appalachia. Hampton Roads alone is home to the Navy’s Atlantic fleet, NATO’s command center and hundreds of thousands of military personnel and veterans; Northern Virginia is home to the Pentagon, Quantico and Fort Belvoir. As a former POW and the son and grandson of admirals, McCain could boost turnout among this voting bloc. <br> A McCain presidency would mean steady defense spending, which would mean a sustained flow of money to Northern Virginia’s economy. Unlike funding for other high-tech areas such as Silicon Valley or the Research Triangle, the seed money for the booming Dulles Corridor in Northern Virginia came from Pentagon outsourcing that began in the Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton eras and accelerated with Homeland Security outsourcing in the George W. Bush years. <br> Major federal contractors set up shop in Northern Virginia and, in turn, subcontracted work to technology firms that hired accountants and lawyers. The young professionals who work at those firms in Tysons Corner, Reston and Ashburn are part of Obama’s core constituency. But the ideology and lifeblood of many of these firms is rooted in continued defense spending — one part of the Bush legacy that McCain would be sure to continue. In an election in which Republicans’ Iraq policy will hurt McCain in almost every state, his bullish foreign policy could actually help him in some quarters of Virginia. <br> Ironically, McCain’s reputation as a maverick and an occasional check against the Bush White House will score him some points among the moderate wing of Virginia Republicans. This group has historically been a key swing vote in statewide elections, breaking from the party several times in the decade, most memorably to side with then-Gov. Mark Warner on a $1.5 billion tax measure. <br> McCain’s popularity with these voters was apparent in his 2000 primary contest against Bush. Bush won every county west of Interstate 95 and south of I-66 and won by huge margins in reliably red areas such as the districts of Republican Reps. Eric Cantor, who was once a deputy whip for Tom DeLay, and Virgil H. Goode, who stirred up controversy when he criticized Rep. Keith Ellison’s swearing-in on the Quran. <br> McCain won the military-heavy 2nd District around Hampton Roads, the liberal 8th in Arlington and Alexandria and the suburban 11th, where moderate Republicans such as Rep. Tom Davis have thrived. <br> Many of the moderates who voted for McCain are the same ones who helped tip recent statewide elections to the Democrats. Gov. Tim Kaine won in part because GOP candidate Jerry Kilgore lost Fairfax County by 15 more points than Bush had a year earlier. The difference was probably backlash to Kilgore’s controversial Hitler and death penalty ads. Likewise, former Sen. George Allen lost only after moderate Republicans abandoned him following the “macaca” scandal. <br> But the Republicans running under those damaged candidates did fine. Every Republican congressman in Virginia was reelected in 2006, and Republican candidates for attorney general and lieutenant governor were elected in 2005, marking the first time in Virginia history that a Democratic governor had members of the opposite party serving in the two posts under him. It also suggested that elections in the state are more often than not referendums on the Republican candidate. 
