222
'apples
Arena Digest: Is Obama like Carter?
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2010/06/arena-digest-is-obama-like-carter-038264
2010-06-09
None
POLITICO's Arena contributors discuss if Obama is facing apolitical fate similar to that of Jimmy Carter. Gregory Hess, professor of economics and taxation, Claremont McKenna College <br> Whatever you think of the Obama administration’s performance, the comparison to President Carter isapples and orangesto my mind. The Iranian Revolution and subsequent U.S. hostage situation were bellwether international historical events that the U.S. government was ill prepared to deal with either in the particular or in the context of a wider shift in Middle East politics. President Carter’s response was to micromanage and become self-absorbed by the daily events. His hold on the Democratic Party was always tenuous, and he was never able, even before the Iran situation, to lead his party and establish, let alone maintain, cohesion. By contrast, President Obama has continued to maintain a broad reach in the Democratic Party, though he has not had much success in outreach to the Republican Party, passed some historical legislation and clearly is the unrivaled leader of the Democratic Party. <br> Stephen Hess, media and government scholar <br> Carter is now the shorthand for “the failed presidency.” And these comparisons always predict or warn that Obama’s will fail, too. But in aims, operations, person or first-year record with Congress, Carter and Obama are poles apart. Start by comparing their inaugural addresses. Compare the personnel of their White House staffs. If the Obama presidency ultimately fails — far too early to judge — it will not be necessary to resurrect the ways of Jimmy Carter (or, I can see it coming, Woodrow Wilson). <br> Steven Calabresi, law professor, Northwestern University <br> Obama is showing signs of serious incompetence in crisis management with the Gulf oil spill that do call to mind memories of Jimmy Carter’s botched effort to manage the Iranian hostage crisis. In addition, he is projecting U.S. weakness abroad, which is emboldening Iran, Turkey, Brazil and North Korea to take aggressive anti-Western threats. At home, he is pursuing economic policies that eventually will lead to a return to the stagflation of the 1970s. There is essentially no new jobs creation in the private sector because Obama has scared the daylights out of small businesses, and no one wants to invest or expand in this economic climate. <br> Meanwhile, the steady cranking of the government printing presses to pay for our gargantuan deficits almost guarantees that inflation eventually will return. Once the Bush tax cuts expire at the end of this year, the recovery will take a huge hit as taxes go up. Higher unemployment, higher inflation and ultimately higher interest rates are what lie before us. <br> Taken together, these three things mean a higher misery index. Wouldn’t it be nice if this trip back to the 1970s were limited to just wearing bell bottoms? But, it is not. <br> Tevi Troy, former Bush administration official and visiting senior fellow, the Hudson Institute <br> Like Jimmy Carter, Barack Obama was a fresh young face who came to power after a long period of Republican rule and found that running things in Washington is more difficult than running a smart campaign. <br> Of course, this description applies to Bill Clinton, as well. The difference between the Clinton and Carter approaches is Clinton was willing to pivot and move to the center in the face of political and policy realities. <br> Obama thus far has shown little willingness to take the needed steps to the center — and the Democratic leaders in Congress have no interest in letting him do so. 
