236
'apples
How envy heats up political campaigns
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2008/07/how-envy-heats-up-political-campaigns-011771
2008-07-16
Andrew Glass
While envy may well be a facet of every presidential campaign, it rarely appears in naked form. To be sure, rivalry, envy’s emotional cousin, is a central element of the competition. But once the primary season ends, the political rules call for rivals to spar chiefly across party lines. <br> These notions come to mind in light of the angry comments the Rev. Jesse Jackson recently made about Barack Obama that, to Jackson’s regret, became public. Much was made of Jackson’s vulgar remarks about Obama. Some accounts focused on Jackson’s charge that Obama was “talking down to black people.” <br> While both points were newsworthy, the real story is Jackson’s jealous rage at Obama’s emergence as the presumptive Democratic nominee. It could well be that Jackson’s fury is fueled not only by his innate narcissism, but also by the notion that Democrats would have won the presidency in 1988 had he been on the ticket. <br> Similar hidden pangs of envy can be found throughout much of the nation’s political history. Daniel Patrick Moynihan, another prickly Democrat who had a good deal to say about race, once said, “We are all entitled to our own opinions, but we are not entitled to our own facts.” We need to focus on Moynihan’s dictum as we parse the Jackson-Obama controversy. <br> Few observers now recall just how close Jackson came to winning the Democratic presidential nomination in 1988. Before this year’s South Carolina primary, Bill Clinton cited Jackson’s success there, but merely to suggest that Obama, like Jackson before him, was a niche candidate with only a limited appeal to the broader electorate. <br> One need not gloss over Jackson’s documented character flaws to recall the breadth of Jackson’s support in the 1988 primary contest, which I covered for the Atlanta Journal-Constitution and Cox Newspapers. Although dismissed beforehand by some pundits as a one-trick civil rights activist, Jackson managed to win five primaries in that year’s version of Super Tuesday. He came in just behind Massachusetts Gov. Michael Dukakis, the eventual nominee, who won six primaries, and he was even with Sen. Al Gore of Tennessee. <br> Overall, Jackson captured nearly 7 million votes in 1988, winning at least 11 contests and perhaps as many as 13. For a time, after capturing 55 percent of the vote in the Michigan caucus, he was widely viewed as the front-runner, with a majority of pledged delegates. Writing in The New York Times, R.W. “Johnny” Apple called 1988 “The Year of Jackson.” <br> By the time the Democrats arrived in Atlanta for their convention, all the candidates had dropped out except Dukakis and Jackson, who was endorsed by, among other white politicians, Sen. Ernest Hollings of South Carolina. Jackson demanded a roll-call vote, although he realized he would come up short. And he did, with 1,219 delegates to Dukakis’ 2,877. <br> Jackson then told Dukakis that he was entitled to be his running mate. Dukakis, however, balked and chose Sen. Lloyd Bentsen of Texas. The so-called Boston-Austin axis was defeated in November after garnering Jackson’s lukewarm support. <br> Jackson’s whispered diatribe against Obama into a hot microphone reflects an unremarked-upon irony: If Obama, in Jackson’s mind, has been “talking down to black people,” then Jackson used much the same rhetoric in 1988. <br> He also ran, like Obama does today, as an economic populist. At a rally at an American Motors plant in Kenosha, Wis., Jackson spoke out against the decision by Chrysler, the plant’s new owners, to close it by the end of the year. With only a few blacks in the crowd, he said, “We have to put the focus on Kenosha, Wis., as the place, here and now, where we draw the line to end economic violence.” The United Auto Workers’ Local 72 thereupon voted to endorse Jackson’s candidacy, even though it was against union rules to do so. <br> Some critics believe Jackson has been cut too much slack and deserves his comeuppance. Jackson believes just the opposite. <br> Andrew Glass is a contributing editor at Politico. 
