204
'apples
Fiscal sanity: Cut, Cap and Balance
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2011/07/fiscal-sanity-cut-cap-and-balance-060228
2011-07-29
Kellyanne Conway
Since the economic collapse, American families and businesses have taken three simple yet painful steps: Cut the amount of debt they owe, cap future spending and balance their budgets. <br> Why can’t Washington do the same? <br> The House already has, last week, by a bipartisan vote. “Cut, Cap and Balance” gives President Barack Obama the $2.7 trillion increase in the debt ceiling he seeks; requires the deficit be cut in half from last year; includes 10 years worth of enforceable spending cuts that will keep the budget in balance, and requires a Balanced Budget Amendment be sent to the states. <br> Cut, Cap and Balance does not touch Medicare. It does not touch Social Security. What it touches is a nerve in a president who has spent a trillion dollars in two and a half years, and presided over a 40 percent increase in the national debt — from $10.6 trillion when he took office, to $14.3 trillion today. <br> Cut, Cap and Balance” is not typical Beltway-speak, designed to confuse the public and defer tough choices. It is straightforward and, according to a recent CNN poll, favored by two-thirds (66 percent) of Americans when described without politicized terms. That same poll showed that 74 percent of American adults favor a Balanced Budget Amendment, and 60 percent believe such an amendment is necessary for the government to get the federal budget deficit under control. <br> The Boehner plan contains similar elements: no tax increases, a dollar-to-dollar match in spending cuts to debt ceiling increases and a requirement that Congress pass a balanced budget amendment before the second step of a debt-ceiling increase is approved. <br> That second bite at the apple would come in six months — the debt ceiling could then be raised by another $1.6 trillion if a special legislative commission approves spending cuts of $1.8 trillion over a decade. It may not be perfect, but the House GOP has already won the debate. Kicking a field goal on 4th and 15 when you are ahead is not crazy. <br> Both solutions have more public support than the boondoggles that exacerbated the problem. Obamacare is even less popular and more expensive now than when it passed. The $850 billion stimulus that promised to create 4 million jobs and keep unemployment at 8 percent? Now 1.5 million fewer Americans are working than when Obama became president and unemployment is at 9.2 percent. <br> People are paying attention, and are far more financially sophisticated than many in Washington think. They can do the math. “Debt” was a four-letter word in the 2010 elections, and candidates who promised to tackle it won. <br> Roughly 64 percent of voters, in our Election Day 2010 poll, said the government should stop spending now to avoid an increase on the national debt. That same poll found government spending was the second most important concern that voters took to the ballot box. <br> Not much has changed. The Congressional Budget Office predicts that debt will equal 100 percent of our gross domestic product in 10 years. Public sentiment remains in favor of austerity measures that force Washington to do what millions of Americans have done — turn off the spending spigot, fashion a reasonable budget and live within one’s means. 
