2
'apples
Why the military's long reckoning with sexual assault can help us now (opinion) 
CNN
https://www.cnn.com/2018/01/26/opinions/military-sexual-assault-me-too-lessons-turner-tsongas-opinion/index.html
2018-01-26
Mike Turner and Niki Tsongas
For the better part of a decade, we have worked with the military to identify root causes and institute safeguards that prevent sexual harassment and sexual assault and increase support for survivors. <br> But the organizational failures at the root of sexual harassment and assault are not unique to the military. Leaders abusing their authority; cultures that frequently close ranks to prevent negative attention; victims suffering retaliation; assailants protected by their colleagues; lack of institutional support; unclear or obstructed paths to justice -- these are the same shortcomings now being revealed across industries, from entertainment to education; media to Congress. Sexual harassment and sexual assault in professional workplaces is widespread in America -- but there are positive steps we can take. <br> While not an apples-to-apples comparison, many of the systemic changes instituted over the past decade within the military can be translated to the civilian sector. <br> Similarly, private entities should, if victims request it, be encouraged to provide alternate places of work immediately to victims of sexual harassment or sexual assault. Responsible employers ought to provide victims no-cost legal support -- you should not suffer financial hardship because you endured sexual harassment at work. Regular, anonymous climate surveys are useful tools every industry should adopt to determine the prevalence of harassment. And private institutions should clearly outline the professional consequences of sexually inappropriate or illegal behavior in the workplace. <br> While every institution must wrestle with how best to change its culture and do right by victims, the fight against sexual assault in the military has imparted lessons and created tools that have broader applicability. <br> A military unit succeeds or fails based on its members' ability to trust and cooperate with the women and men standing beside them. As we look around the halls of Capitol Hill, there are places where our culture trends toward insularity over transparency. But, like in the military, trust is essential between members, staff and all those involved in making our government run. <br> Military sexual assault is far from a solved crisis and we have much more work to do to change the military culture that has enabled these crimes for too long. But systemic changes in the military have had an impact and can also serve as a model for how broader society moves forward from this watershed moment.
