226
'apples
Arena Digest: Should Dems punish Lieberman?
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2009/12/arena-digest-should-dems-punish-lieberman-030578
2009-12-15
POLITICO Staff
Julian E. Zelizer, professor, Princeton University <br> “Lieberman’s ‘flip-flop’ does raise the question of whether [Harry] Reid and the Democratic leadership should take a tougher stand against the handful of moderates who have been making things difficult in the Senate. This was the strategy used in the 1970s, when House Democrats finally moved against the Southern committee chairmen who had been the source of obstruction. They deposed four chairmen, instituted a series of reforms that diminished their autonomy and made the caucus a much stronger force in House politics. Thus far, the strategy has been to negotiate and compromise with the Senate moderates. At some point, the leadership might shift, especially if the Senate health care bill falters.” <br> Rhodes Cook, writer and political analyst <br> “I will leave the proper response of Democratic Senate colleagues to Joe Lieberman for others to discuss. All I can say is that he should thank his lucky stars that he is still in the Senate. Many states have ‘sore loser’ laws that prevent candidates who lose in a party primary from coming back and running as an independent in the general election, as Lieberman did in 2006. They force candidates to pick one venue or the other but do not allow them two bites at the apple in one year. Connecticut, though, does not have such a sore loser law, which permitted Lieberman to continue a Senate career that since 2006 has become increasingly anti-Democratic.” <br> Jeffrey C. Stewart, professor, University of California, Santa Barbara <br> “It’s real simple. Harry Reid needs to prepare a bill that Olympia Snowe will support. That is the formula that worked with the stimulus bill. Then it doesn’t matter if Lieberman or [Ben] Nelson does not vote for the bill. Then, after the bill is signed by [President Barack] Obama, strip Lieberman of his chairmanship and campaign like hell against his reelection. Politics is about rewarding friends and punishing flip-floppers.” <br> Greg Dworkin, contributing editor, Daily Kos <br> “Health care reform is still in the cards, no thanks to Republicans and their ally, Joe Lieberman (Party of One-Conn.). If Democrats and independents didn’t get it when Joe supported [George W.] Bush on Iraq or [Sen. John] McCain in the election, they might get it now. Lieberman is beholden to the insurance companies in Hartford and wants no part of anything that will help their customers or his constituents. (In Connecticut, they heavily favor the public option.) Lieberman won with independent support, breaking promises every step along the way, and this is his payback to Connecticut residents like myself. National Journal, in its year-end poll, features significant political insider distrust of Joe (along with Sarah Palin and Michele Bachmann), the price of going rogue and mugging for the cameras. But whether health reform is done with or without Joe Lieberman, by reconciliation or by 60 votes, something will pass. The real questions, as always with the Senate, are: “What is it that will pass, and will it be enough?” <br> Lanny Davis, attorney and Democratic strategist <br> “I have another great idea. Let’s throw Sen. Joe Lieberman, with all these liberal and Democratic positions, out of the caucus because of his position supporting revolutionary national health care but not 100 percent of the liberal wish list — and thereby Talibanize/purify the Democratic Party (just like Sarah Palin and Rush Limbaugh are trying to do for the GOP), even if that means going back to minority party status by also losing all the Senate moderates and Blue Dogs in the House who share some of Lieberman’s concerns.” 
