96
'apples
Dr. Ablow Gets It Wrong About Chaz Bono and 'Dancing With the Stars'
Foxnews
http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2011/09/13/dr-ablow-gets-it-wrong-about-chaz-bono-and-dancing-with-stars.html
2011-09-13
Jack Drescher
Editor's note: This piece originally appeared on the Human Right’s Campaign Back Story blog. <br> Apparently perturbed by the announcement that Chaz Bono would dance with a woman partner on television’s Dancing with the Stars, he warned parents to keep kids from watching the show. His reason: protecting children who might be struggling with gender confusion from unwanted influences. <br> Although this “monkey see, monkey do” warning might come across as common sense advice, this is another instance where “common sense” does not square with science. While science has yet to explain what causes gender dysphoria, as my colleague, APA President, Dr. John Oldham affirms, “There is no evidence that viewing a television game show with a transgender contestant would induce Gender Identity Disorder in young people.” <br> Wouldn’t it be more helpful to offer scientific data rather than sensationalized, detailed descriptions of sex reassignment surgery or metaphors about double amputees to support the views Dr. Ablow “believes to be true?” <br> GIDC is relatively rare, and children whose gender dysphoria persists into adulthood even rarer. Existing research indicates that children with GIDC grow out of gender dysphoria, do not grow up to be transgender, and most of them grow up to be gay! Again, no one knows why. <br> The adolescents and their families who elect to go this route are not the ones Dr. Ablow describes: “tomboyish girls and sensitive, less stereotypically ‘masculine’ boys” or children who recently lost a parent and are “wondering who they are absent their deceased mothers or fathers.” His views on gender confusion mix apples with oranges and have little basis in current clinical practices. <br> Dr. Ablow, seeing Chaz Bono’s life as a tragedy, wants others to agree and his “prescription” is scaring people away from tuning in and seeing for themselves. Yet parents should not be afraid to learn something new. Tuning out uncomfortable information and maintaining silence only makes children (who cannot be shielded from this information in the modern age) more anxious. Children sensing parental anxiety become anxious as well. <br> If he ends up watching it, perhaps Dr. Ablow will learn something as well.
