182
'apples
Security, justice costs of sequester
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2012/10/security-justice-are-big-cost-of-sequester-081967
2012-10-03
Laurel Bellows
Unless members of Congress take immediate action to address the threat of the process known as sequestration, mandatory, across-the-board spending cuts will go into effect on Jan. 2, 2013, that will weaken national security, hamstring our system of justice and ruin any opportunity our nation has for timely economic recovery. <br> Legislation in 2011 created a bipartisan congressional committee tasked with crafting a comprehensive, multiyear, deficit-reduction plan. Failure of the committee to recommend and Congress and the president to accede to a budget plan would trigger deep and undesirable automatic reductions in spending — sequestration of funds — to nearly all federal programs. At the beginning of 2013, most defense spending and nondefense spending would be slashed 9.4 percent and 8.2 percent, respectively. <br> As lawyers, we are particularly concerned with the devastating impact that sequestration would have on our entire justice system. Basic government functions that keep our streets safe, enforce our laws and maintain access to justice are vulnerable. <br> Sequestration would gut the Department of Justice — and the Federal Bureau of Investigation; Drug Enforcement Administration; and Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives with it. The FBI has foiled at least 30 separate terror plots since Sept. 11. In addition to investigating domestic and international terrorism, the FBI investigates public corruption and human trafficking. The DEA and ATF investigate drug crime, pursue violent gangs and work in cooperation with other agencies to secure our borders. <br> It is estimated that sequestration would cost the DOJ, FBI, DEA and ATF some 3,700 agents and U.S. marshals. Nearly 1,000 attorneys would be asked to stop protecting the homeland and start applying for new jobs. Sequestration would put the United States in the vulnerable position of having to choose what kinds of serious crimes to prevent. <br> Federal programs that give states the resources to hire police officers and prosecutors to take violent criminals off the streets would be severely diminished. Initiatives such as state and local law enforcement assistance programs, juvenile justice programs and efforts to combat sexual and domestic violence that have already endured budget cuts would be scaled back even further. <br> Funds to buy bulletproof vests for police, hire prosecutors and defenders at the state and local level, and monitor child predators are on the chopping block. So, too, are youth violence prevention programs to address bullying, substance abuse and gangs. Individuals escaping from domestic or sexual violence would be doubly victimized by the deep expected cuts to the Legal Assistance for Victims programs that provide, for example, civil legal services to victims; and by reductions in grant programs to hire and train police, prosecutors and courts. <br> Sequestration also would roll back one of the signature achievements of the past Congress by reducing funding for the bipartisan Second Chance Act, which uses public-private partnerships to reduce recidivism through programs that provide education, skills and job training, mental health and substance abuse counseling and housing services. With more than 650,000 prisoners released in the United States each year and two-thirds re-entering prison within three years, we should work to ensure that those who serve their time become contributing members of society. 
