211
'apples
NYSE: Deutsch not required
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2011/02/nyse-deutsch-not-required-050124
2011-02-24
Nancy McLernon
The merger between Germany’s Deutsche Brse and the New York Stock Exchange announced last week has met with an all too familiar knee-jerk reaction in Washington. <br> It’s unfortunate that whenever an iconic U.S. institution receives a capital infusion from abroad, a policy debate ensues questioning whether American economic power is on the wane. Anti-foreign jabs about this deal, however, are likely to make other global companies worry about pumping much-needed capital into the United States. <br> Historically, foreign direct investment has been a reliable source of U.S. economic growth. Think back a decade ago. Ice-cream lovers across the U.S. bemoaned the British-Dutch multinational Unilever’s purchase of Ben Jerry’s. Yet, today, one can still find a pint of Cherry Garcia in almost any U.S. grocery freezer section, and Ben Jerry’s maintains its socially conscious operating style. Under Unilever, Ben Jerry’s has streamlined production and expanded internationally — for increased sales and better margins. Without the investment, we might be remembering Ben Jerry’s wistfully rather than trying to resist just one more scoop. <br> Many companies as ingrained in the American cultural landscape as apple pie have traveled the same path. InBev of Belgium purchased Anheuser-Busch in 2008, but that has not dampened our enthusiasm for the King of Beer’s Super Bowl commercials. Race cars at the Indianapolis 500 still run on Firestone Tires, bought by Bridgestone of Japan in 1998, after years of financial struggles. Slurpees are available at 38,000 locations worldwide since Japanese investors purchased 7-Eleven in the 1990s, and fueled its rise to the largest chain franchise on the planet. <br> All told, the U.S. subsidiaries of global companies have insourced 5.6 million jobs for Americans. Annually, these companies write $408.5 billion in U.S. paychecks, spend $40.5 billion on U.S. research and development and manufacture close to 20 percent of total U.S. exports. 
