285
bananas'
On asylum, Ecuador follows the law
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2013/07/on-asylum-requests-ecuador-follows-rule-of-law-093895
2013-07-09
Nathalie Cely
My country, Ecuador, recently found itself in the crossfire over a request for asylum from Edward Snowden, the former National Security Agency contractor at the center of a raging global controversy. We are one of more than 20 countries with which he registered a formal application. While his fate remains uncertain, and there are strong opinions on whether he is a hero or a villain, the affair has put a needed spotlight on the little-understood asylum process. <br> Ecuador didn’t choose this controversy; it chose us. We are bound by international and domestic law to thoroughly consider any and all applications for asylum we receive on the basis of the likelihood of persecution, not politics. Regardless of our personal views on the applicant, our asylum process remains agnostic. Our commitment to due process does not afford us the luxury of being selective in how we comply with our obligations. Doing so would weaken our system of fair, transparent justice and the trust that the world — most importantly our own citizens — have in it. <br> At the same time, as Ecuador and other countries have stated, an individual cannot apply for asylum from abroad; the law only allows for such a request to be processed if that individual is within the territory of the nation he is petitioning. Ecuador also bears no responsibility for any potential travel by Snowden. <br> Our country does, however, have a responsibility to follow the law. Ecuador has proudly signed and ratified every applicable international convention and treaty on human rights and refugees. As a signatory to the 1948 United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, for instance, Ecuador recognizes that “everyone has the right to seek and to enjoy in other countries asylum from persecution.” This principle is embodied in our constitution, which obligates us to review all applications. National legislation strictly regulates the formal asylum process, which is based on protocols outlined in the United Nations Refugee Convention and other international instruments. According to the convention, asylum should be granted if an individual has a “well-founded fear of being persecuted for reasons of race, religion, nationality membership of a particular social group or political opinion and is unable or, owing to such fear, unwilling to avail himself of the protection of that country.” <br> That is a strong test. It should therefore not be surprising that the vast majority of the applications we receive — 78 percent in 2011 — are rejected. <br> Snowden is not alone in his request for asylum in Ecuador. Ecuador received more than 1,000 asylum claims per month last year and hosts the largest population of refugees in Latin America. Asylum-seekers all over the world look to Ecuador because our constitution protects their rights and allows applicants to be integrated locally. We do not have refugee camps. <br> The U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees has praised Ecuador’s system, calling it an “example” for asylum-seekers in the region. It’s a system whose integrity relies on its protection from outside pressure and political manipulation. Human rights are non-negotiable, nor are they up for selective application. Ecuador’s sovereignty is unbreakable. The message to asylum-seekers worldwide is that they will have a fair hearing in Ecuador, and those whom we accept have met the highest international standards. <br> As President Rafael Correa told Vice President Joe Biden during their phone call, Ecuador will consult closely with the United States in weighing Snowden’s application, should he arrive on Ecuadorian soil. We value a close relationship with the American people: Nearly 2 million Ecuadoreans live in the United States, and we share nearly $20 billion in annual bilateral trade, including many products Americans hold dear, from roses to bananas to broccoli. This interaction provides mutual benefits in both countries — supporting small-business owners in the United States who depend on access to our high-quality products and empowering thousands of workers, many of whom are women heads of households, in Ecuador. <br> No matter the outcome of Snowden’s case, we hope and expect the relationship will endure. Our people are engaged in promoting and defending the same principles and values and share the same aspirations for democracy, peace and prosperity. But there must be equal treatment and a fundamental respect for the rights of all. <br> Nathalie Cely is Ecuador’s ambassador to the United States. 
