245
'apples
F. Thompson campaigning on Law Order?
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2007/05/f-thompson-campaigning-on-law-order-003883
2007-05-08
None
So will he or won't he? <br> Speculation about Fred Thompson's presidential intentions has suffused cable news, talk radio and the blogosphere ever since the former senator and actor dangled the prospect of entering the contest -- tantalizingly -- in March. <br> It's not exactly clear what has given rise to the Thompson boomlet. Roll Call's Stuart Rothenberg observesthat he isn't necessarily such a good fit for the role of presidential candidate. It's simply that none of the other cast members is a perfect fit either. <br> Role indeed: Pundits, rivals and friends have plumbed Thompson's every statement, Senate vote and acting part for insights into his political tendencies and governing philosophy. Is he a real Reaganite? Anti-abortion? A flip-flopper? <br> Thompson himself has taken to the airwaves (guest-hosting Paul Harvey's radio show) and the conservative public square (writing op-eds for National Review Online and Townhall.com) to share his beliefs. <br> But to understand the essence of the man, we needn't look any further than his performance as Manhattan District Attorney Arthur Branch on the long-running crime drama Law Order. Sure, Thompson has played numerous roles on the big and small screen. But Law Order -- in which he has starred as the DA in more than 100 episodes since 2002 -- has best showcased his talents, convictions and demeanor. <br> Like Thompson himself, the no-nonsense, dry-humored, folksy Branch arrived in Manhattan after a successful career somewhere in the South. During the past five years, he has ably fulfilled his prosecutorial duties, cleansing the Big Apple of its woes (like another candidate). <br> Branch has a decidedly conservative bent, yet one tempered by a willingness and an ability to mesh with his apolitical executive assistant DA ( played by Sam Waterston, who has embarked on a nonpartisan project of his own, the Unity08 alternative campaign) and a series of predictably liberal assistant DAs. <br> And over the past three months, the show has tested highly political waters, with episodes about stem cells, creationism, illegal immigration, evangelical churches, homosexuality, Islamofascism and even the aborted O.J. book. <br> In each instance, Branch has studiously adopted a pragmatic, right-leaning position, standing on principle while ensuring that the job -- nailing the bad guys -- gets done. <br> One particular example stands out. In Talking Points, which aired on Feb. 2, 2007, an Ann Coulter look-alike is assaulted on campus while delivering a vitriolic speech. In prosecuting her assailant, Branch refuses to allow the Coulter clone to testify, describing her as one of the most polarizing people on the planet and fretting that putting her on the stand would alienate the jury. In his down-home manner, the DA laments that, nowadays, political discourse has deteriorated into chickens chattering in the churchyard. <br> But Branch is just getting started. When the Coulter stand-in confronts him later in the episode, he likens her to a spider. She pushes back; he dismisses her, saying all you do is make people madder 'n a hound dog with a head cold, so along the way they miss the message completely. <br> The upshot: While he acknowledges being on the same side of the ideological fence, ideology is one thing (and) hyperbole is another. <br> This interaction reflects Branch's sensibilities and signals Thompson's intentions: He's a man of principle, but he's unafraid to rebuke extreme partisan allies who distort Republican values. <br> And in general, like Branch, Thompson has heterodox tendencies. He voted for the McCain-Feingold campaign finance reform bill and against convicting President Clinton of perjury during impeachment. <br> These tendencies dovetail with the numerous challenges he faces, one of which is securing those conservative voters who are more susceptible than other Republicans to Coulterian hyperbole. He has caught flak for his openness to abortion in certain circumstances early in his political career. Focus on the Family's James Dobson reportedly said, I don't think he's a Christian. <br> Still, much like his doppelgnger, Thompson appears to be a legitimate Southern conservative but by no means puritanical or closed-minded. This approach is authentic, but it's also skillful positioning for both the primary and general elections. <br> In one final, telling analogy, Branch ascended to his position and rescued the stature of the office in 2002 by ousting a powerful but controversial woman -- the ineffectual Nora Lewin (played by Dianne Wiest). Maybe Thompson's looking for a rematch? <br> Michael M. Rosen is an attorney in San Diego. 
