149
'apples
The Clintons Tricky Way With Words
Politico
https://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2015/03/hillary-clinton-press-conference-115989
2015-03-11
Jack Shafer
The press scrutinizes every utterance from the House of Clinton, parsing the couple’s words for new or hidden meanings—and for good reason. The two have a devious way with words. Bill Clinton, whose verbal cunning dwarfs that of almost anyone on the public stage, cemented his trickster reputation in 1998 when he claimed he did “not have sexual relations with that woman, Miss Lewinsky,” and offered, “It depends on what the meaning of the word ‘is’ is.” In some universe, Bill was on the level in his remarks. Unfortunately for him, it was not this one. <br> So when Hillary Clinton, a veteran crisis manager in her own right, spoke twice about “not saving” her personal emails at her press conference Tuesday instead of picking the more direct and active “deleted,” newsroom ears pricked up, scanning for the lie or the omission or the message manipulation. “Not saving” sounds like the sensible and casual abandonment of something that has lost its value, like the gray water that gushes from your washer during a rinse cycle. “Deleted,” on the other hand, sounds purposeful, almost sinister if you have reason to suspect that the speaker is not being candid with you—and who among us, even her fans, thinks that Hillary Clinton is ever candid? <br> Clinton may have anticipated that if she was stupid enough to use the D-word in her press conference, The Daily Show would have ridiculed her by running the clip in a continuous loop and her political opponents would have spliced it into their attack videos. A confession about deleting rather than not saving emails would have prompted much more vocal accusations that she had shredded “evidence.” Still, using the phrase “not saving” has come with its own costs, inviting the press to tweeze her press conference transcript for new clues of wrongdoing or perfidy. <br> Still, isn’t changing the subject what crisis management is all about? By that measure, Clinton’s press conference must be counted as a minor success. Especially effective—at least in the moment—was the obviously scripted line she used four times, in which she said that, “Looking back,” using two phones and two email accounts would have been wiser. To sympathetic ears, “looking back” sounded like an apology. But it wasn’t, any more than saying, “Looking back, I wish I had purchased Apple stock in March 2000 when it was $5 a share” constitutes an apology to your children now that you’re broke. <br> As crisis managers know, changing the subject can backfire when it moves the discussion to a fresh hot zone. Already, the press has changed its focus from the deleted—I mean, not saved—emails to the security of her private email server. This question, which the press can probably keep aloft for weeks, can’t be finessed away in a future Hillary Clinton press conference because it is largely speculative. Given the Internet’s capacity to remember everything, perhaps server logs detailing who corresponded with Clinton on her private account exist somewhere even if the emails themselves have been destroyed, as Clinton implies. At some point, Clinton will have to volunteer the techs who set up the server to address the security question because if they don’t, the House Select Committee on Benghazi will steal a march and subpoena them. The quest for clues also has the Benghazi committee promising to bring Clinton in for more testimony and demanding the emails of her inner circle at the State Department. <br> If Clinton did succeed in destroying the emails, she will have denied her opponents the pleasure of using them against her. But that act of crisis management has a cost, too. If they don’t exist, Clinton can’t use them to exonerate herself from the charges—real and fanciful—that her foes issue. Some may think that it’s a rotten deal that Clinton has to prove herself innocent rather than her foes having to prove that she’s guilty. But the analogy isn’t perfect. Clinton isn’t a citizen who stands accused of wrongdoing; she’s a former public servant (who expects to be president this time in 2017) who acted as judge and jury in the disposition of her emails. We wouldn’t look the other way if a Richard Nixon acted like this, so we can’t look the other way for Clinton. <br> Having spent four airborne years as secretary of state, Clinton intended to run for president as a cool, decisive, above-it-all diplomat. Instead, she finds herself back on the ground, muddied and bruised, and tangled up in an email kerfuffle that magnifies all of the weaknesses of the House of Clinton. No knockout punch was landed Tuesday, but the match did presage a long campaign in which Clinton is bled and bled again by jabs from the press and the opposition. It’s hard to win if you’re constantly on the defensive. <br> Send your emails about emails to my email address: Shafer.Politico@gmail.com . My Twitter is heavyweight, my email alerts is welterweight, and my RSS feed is strawweight. <br> Correction: An earlier version of this story said Clinton expects to be president this time in 2016. The start date of the next president's tenure would be in 2017. 
