196
'apples
Saving trade secrets
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2012/03/saving-trade-secrets-074585
2012-03-28
Mark Elliot
Counterfeiters are in the business of deception. It’s safe to surmise that counterfeiters operate with the single goal to deceive the public, consumers and businesses to buy inauthentic, cheaply made — and thus sometimes dangerous — items. <br> Where the deception should end, however, is at law enforcement’s door. There are varying degrees of sophistication among counterfeiters — from crude knock-offs to refined, hard-to-spot fakes — that are challenging U.S. law enforcement every day at our border crossings and ports. <br> When a suspected fake was spotted in years past, U.S. Customs and Border Protection would seek guidance from the most knowledgeable expert on the product: the rights holder. In that capacity, the rights holder would be allowed to examine the product and pronounce its authenticity or inauthenticity. <br> In 2008, unfortunately, a new interpretation of the Trade Secrets Act closed the open line of communication between CBP and these experts and rights holders. Today, our law enforcement must fight the war against counterfeits with one hand tied behind its back. <br> It’s unreasonable to expect law enforcement to know the intricacies of every pair of sneakers, children’s toy and fire alarm. Yet now they cannot get help from the companies that make these products, under our most trusted brands. <br> Not only is there a delay in resolving suspected fake shipments, this red tape also delays legitimate trade and commerce. Real shipments of authentic goods, from pharmaceuticals to video games, are potentially being held up under this new, cumbersome authentication process. <br> Protection of innovation and intellectual property does not—and should not—have to be this difficult. This is precisely why Reps. Ted Poe (R-Texas) and Steve Chabot (R-Ohio) last week introduced the Foreign Counterfeit Prevention Act. The House Judiciary Committee is holding a hearing about it today. <br> This legislation ensures that common sense aligns with IP protection at our borders, again allowing customs officers to access information and expertise from those potentially being stolen from. <br> This act is a win all around. It is designed to give CBP the necessary resources to ensure that deceptive and sometimes even dangerous fakes don’t make it into our homes. It is devised to streamline and expedite legitimate shipments and trade, and will likely uphold the intellectual property that supports millions of U.S. jobs and companies. <br> It’s one thing if the counterfeiters are deceiving us — but another if we’re deceiving ourselves. Counterfeiting and piracy is not a victimless crime when consumer health, jobs and commerce are on the line. <br> It has become clear that preventing law enforcement from talking to the rights holder is not a best practice. We need a logical, good-government approach to IP enforcement and this act can provide it. <br> Mark Elliot is executive vice president of the Global Intellectual Property Center at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. 
