18
'apples
Why do good cops excuse misdeeds of bad ones? (Opinion)
CNN
https://www.cnn.com/2015/12/16/opinions/bailey-blue-wall-of-silence/index.html
2015-12-16
Issac Bailey
 After that evidence emerged, the independent prosecutor and the local solicitor, who filed more charges against the paralyzed man based on the word of the cops who had wrongly said the man shot at them, were not moved enough to call a press conference to explain the discrepancies -- even though they had spoken publicly months earlier to claim the officers did nothing wrong and the man was a bad guy. <br> In Baltimore, a jury deliberated this week over the fate of the first of six officers charged in the Freddie Gray case. Gray died after suffering a severe spinal injury while in police custody, sparking massive protests and rioting. It's rare that the officers were charged; it would be rarer still if any or all of them are convicted. On Wednesday, the jury was deadlocked and the judge declared a mistrial. <br> Truth be told, though, is that we don't have to rely upon that kind of analysis. Police officers have already told us why this keeps happening: because they allow it to. It begs the question: Why are so many cops -- good cops -- seemingly comfortable with wrongdoing in their midst? It's as though in their eyes, evil is only evil when it wears a bandana, not when it wears a badge. <br> They wouldn't tolerate a gang member executing a man in the middle of a street or kicking a man in his face while he's on his hands and knees. But they seem unmoved when a fellow officer does it. <br> Juries and prosecutors and political leaders frequently go along with that thinking, which sends a clear, chilling message to communities that already fear and distrust the police, that they have nothing to lose if an encounter with an officer goes badly because their version of events won't be believed, and those who harm them won't be brought to justice anyway, so why not resist? <br> What's more, "a substantial minority believed that officers should be permitted to use more force than the law currently permits and found it acceptable to sometimes use more force than permitted by the laws that govern them." <br> From the study: "Even though most police officers disapprove of the use of excessive force, a substantial minority consider it acceptable to sometimes use more force than permitted by the laws that govern them. The code of silence also remains a troubling issue for American police, with approximately one-quarter of police officers surveyed stating that whistle blowing is not worth it, two-thirds reporting that police officers who report misconduct are likely to receive a 'cold shoulder' from fellow officers, and more than one-half reporting that it is not unusual for police officers to turn a 'blind eye' to improper conduct by other officers. These findings suggest that the culture of silence that has continually plagued the reform of American policing continues." <br> The code of silence is somewhat true in most professions, but not like it is for police officers. For instance, journalists believe it is part of the job to publicly criticize bad journalism, even harshly. The reluctance by police officers to do the same damages community relations and creates distrust, making it harder to effectively fight crime. Shining light in the dark places among your own is often painful, but also disinfecting. <br> Seven years after the Justice Department study detailing that code of silence among police was released, a December 2007 article by USA Today reported that federal prosecutors were concerned about a rise in police brutality cases and that even large police unions were "concerned that agencies were dropping standards to fill thousands of vacancies and 'scrimping' on training." <br> This was before anyone talked about the now-debunked "Ferguson effect," claims by the likes of presidential candidate Gov. Chris Christie that President Obama was making things hostile for law enforcement, or that #BlackLivesMatter was the cause of distrust of police. <br> Why? Because the blinders cops wear when evil is perpetrated by fellow officers are often worn by jurors who refuse to believe cops can do wrong, making convictions difficult to attain. <br> More Justice Department investigations into police departments, like the one recently announced for Chicago, may be necessary. But as long as the public -- and cops -- continue accepting this level of bad behavior by police, the distrust will remain. <br> Many people, including President Obama, call on communities of color to help law enforcement get rid of the criminal element within their groups, whether they be black gangs or Islamic extremists. Why aren't more of us demanding that law enforcement do the same? <br> Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel was forced to pledge to demand better accountability and transparency from the police department. He apologized for the McDonald killing. <br> He isn't the only one who has some explaining to do.
