181
'apples
FTC should drop Google case
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2012/10/ftc-should-drop-case-against-google-082194
2012-10-09
Thomas M. Lenard
A decision on whether to bring a potentially historic antitrust case against Google is imminent, and the Federal Trade Commission will be judged, for better or worse, on what it decides. <br> At a recent Technology Policy Institute conference, former FTC Chairman William Kovacic lamented that antitrust agencies are too often evaluated on the number of cases they bring — especially big cases — which he analogized to evaluating airlines on the basis of departures rather than arrivals. “You are whom you sue,” Kovacic suggested, is not a meaningful measure of agency performance. A better measure is whether the suits yield benefits for consumers. <br> After investigating for more than a year, and with the European Union already in settlement talks, the FTC may find it difficult to drop the Google case. But that’s what responsible agencies do when the evidence is lacking and no possible remedy is likely to benefit consumers. Just because the FTC may be able to claim a scalp doesn’t mean it should. <br> The principal complaint against Google is inextricably intertwined with Google’s attempts to innovate and better serve its users by directly answering their queries rather than simply referring users to other sites. For example, when users search for travel information, Google now provides a list of the best flights in addition to links to other travel sites. Bing, Microsoft’s search engine, provides similar information in its search results. <br> Despite the fact that consumers have welcomed this practice, it is the basis for the allegation that Google favors its own content and that its searches are “biased.” This complaint comes principally from Google’s competitors in specialized search. In a recent op-ed, for example, Jeffrey Katz, CEO of price-comparison site Nextag, complained that Google promotes its “less relevant and inferior” service instead of Nextag’s, which Katz asserts is “better.” Katz wants Google to work “the way it used to work,” which presumably means going back to showing 10 blue links. That is clearly not a recipe for innovation. <br> Although antitrust should focus on consumers and not competitors, it should be noted that specialty search sites like Kayak and Yelp have been doing very well and have had successful IPOs, even as they complain to the FTC about Google’s supposedly anticompetitive practices. (Nextag is not a public company, so details about its finances are not available.) 
