268
bananas'
Giving the holidays special meaning in Rwanda
Foxnews
http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2014/12/12/holidays-in-rwanda-toast-to-its-remarkable-progress-and-working-to-make.html
2014-12-12
Josh Ruxin
My wife, Alissa, and I moved to Rwanda nearly a decade ago for what was to be a two-year stint. But we fell in love with the land, its people, and its progress, and we have stayed, now raising our three children here. Out of the ashes of genocide, the country has progressed tremendously––it offers one of the world’s fastest growing economies and least corrupt governments, and it has afforded me opportunity to work on one of sub-Saharan Africa’s best public health systems. <br> For the young American expat community in Rwanda, mostly recent college grads coming to do a stint of public health work, the hardest time is, of course, the holidays, as not everyone is able to fly home to America every year. This put quite a burden on our new little Heaven. It was clear from the beginning that holidays would be at Heaven: our outdoor terrace floats above the city, surrounded by lush trees and the sparkling lights of Kigali. <br> Turkey, our favorite holiday food, is not a traditional staple of the Rwandan diet. Thus for years U.S. embassy employees, who have always numbered among the expats around our bar and kitchen, used to import honest-to-God Butterball turkeys before we started serving it at Heaven around the holidays. <br> Under Heaven’s white-lighted trees, Americans, Europeans, and Rwandans enjoy Thanksgiving and Christmas. Even Hanukah gets a place, and my kids have improvised a Coke bottle menorah for just that purpose. For food, in addition to mashed potatoes, we serve matoke puree––mashed up green bananas with plenty of butter. And for drinks, we pour urwagwa, a local banana beer, in addition to the local regular beers and the American spirits in their proud bottles that are always a friendly sight, so far from home. The American ambassador and his wife always show up to offer thanks for our little community, which truly is dedicated to making a difference. <br> Over the holiday season, we can’t help but be moved to raise a glass to Rwanda’s remarkable progress and to all of the people from our own great country who have come to share their passions for enterprise, health, education, and stuffing that tastes like home.
