168
'apples
NYC elections: Why Anthony Weiner sinks while Eliot Spitzer soars
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2013/08/why-weiner-sinks-while-spitzer-soars-095618
2013-08-19
Gary Bauer
The most interesting question surrounding the campaigns of Anthony Weiner and Eliot Spitzer is not whether they can win. Instead, it is whether their candidacies signal a shift in the values and priorities of voters when it comes to political sex scandals. <br> The main difference between past and current political sex scandals is not the frequency with which they occur, but rather the time it takes to recover from them. <br> In the past, once a politician’s sex scandal was revealed, it often took him (it’s almost always him) many years to regain credibility with the public, if he regained it at all. Today, the interval between revelation and redemption is vanishing. <br> Mark Sanford won a South Carolina congressional seat just four years after tearfully admitting to a scandal in which, during his second term as that state’s governor, he cheated on his wife, lied to the public about his whereabouts, and violated state ethics laws. <br> Eliot Spitzer declared his candidacy for New York City comptroller in July, just five years removed from resigning the state’s governorship after admitting to having patronized an expensive prostitution service. <br> Anthony Weiner’s bid to become the Big Apple’s mayor comes only two years after he resigned his congressional seat for sending sexually explicit photos of himself to numerous women before and during his marriage. <br> Some voters don’t seem to mind. As an elderly voter told Time magazine about Weiner’s Internet sexcapades, “Oh, I don’t care. Which one of us is perfect?” <br> Many other voters seem to agree. According to a 2012 study published in the Political Research Quarterly, sex scandals cost politicians just five points at the ballot box. <br> On many measures, public opinion has shifted toward greater acceptance of sexual license. Consider the rising popularity of sexting, the sending of sexually explicit photos via text message or Twitter. A 2012 Harris poll found that one in five Americans sexts. <br> That’s a significant increase from 2010, when a Pew Research Center poll found that 6 percent of American adults sent sexts and 15 percent received them. <br> But polls show that the vast majority of Americans still believe marital infidelity is wrong. A 2013 Gallup poll found that just 6 percent of respondents felt “married men and women having an affair” was morally acceptable. <br> It is impossible to know whether marital infidelity is more common than it used to be. But it is telling that more Americans feel comfortable admitting to others that they’ve been unfaithful. In 2008, University of Washington researchers found that the lifetime infidelity rate of men over 60 rose from 20 percent in 1991 to 28 percent in 2006. For women in that age group, the rate rose 300 percent, from 5 to 15 percent. Increases in infidelity were also seen among men and women under 35. 
