154
'apples
The Iowa GOPs Big Purge
Politico
https://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2014/03/iowa-terry-branstad-gop-104548
2014-03-11
David Yepsen
Iowa Gov. Terry Branstad has won his epic battle with the state’s Republican Party chairman, A.J. Spiker, who announced his resignation over the weekend after months of open warfare between the moderate GOP governor and Spiker’s legions of Rand Paul supporters. <br> Spiker, a staunch libertarian, took over the party amid the fervor of the 2012 campaign, and since then, he’s clashed repeatedly with the state’s GOP establishment over Iowa’s famous straw poll and general management of party affairs. Now, the center-right is back in charge. <br> We’ve seen this sort of thing in both parties in Iowa before: The caucus process energizes the true believers and the activists who turn out in droves at caucuses and county conventions. More moderate, centrist elements figure they have better things to do than sit through endless debates on platform resolutions and stay away. The zealots win these races for party positions and delegates. <br> But then activists, like a dog chasing a car, face the problem of what to when they catch it. If they can’t convert that energy into campaign money, organization and consensus-building management, they lose support from more traditional elements in the party — and centrist voters (essential in a closely fought state like Iowa). <br> A good example of that is what happened to the Iowa Democratic Party after George McGovern’s showing in 1972. The party took a beating in the November election. <br> In this case, some Republicans have problems with the activists being too extreme on issues. This can turn off centrist voters in general elections and, in a state like Iowa — which is routinely one of the closest states in a presidential election and in party registrations — that can cost Republicans in general election. (It’s not lost on Iowa Republicans what happened to Indiana Republicans and Missouri Republicans in recent U.S. Senate races, where far-right primary challengers committed hugely embarrassing gaffes. <br> The second problem is simple political organizing and management. It’s pretty boring stuff, running party machinery, but when people can’t get that job done, well, the car sometimes runs over them. In this case, the insurgents just didn’t look very good at it. <br> Things got so bad that Branstad and his fellow centrist Republicans had to step in and fix things, putting supporters in local party organizations in a bid to raise more money, recruit electable candidates and hone the get-out-the-vote operation. There was probably also a little test of manhood going on here about who was running the show — top elected Republicans or the newbies. So the establishment is reclaiming the machinery. That’s happening in other places too, where Republicans aren’t keen about being Akinized again. 
