249
bananas'
Lynching re-emerges in new rhetoric of hate (opinion)
CNN
https://www.cnn.com/2017/05/23/opinions/stop-mainstream-lynching-opinion-love/index.html
2017-05-23
David Love
Over 150 years since the founding of the Ku Klux Klan -- a white supremacist group that unleashed terror against African Americans across the South -- language and images of lynching are re-emerging as tools of violence, intimidation and oppression. Society must identify and address this form of hateful rhetoric, or ignore it at our peril. <br> Lynching holds a particular significance in American history. For decades, lynching took the form of ritualized killings performed by white supremacists to uphold their racial purity and ensure their continued political and economic domination. The violence associated with lynching was part of a larger system of Jim Crow segregation that kept people of color subjugated, stripped them of their voting rights and precipitated the mass migration of millions of black people from the South. <br> And this brutality was for one reason and one reason alone: the color of the victims' skin. Though white supremacists would argue it was because black people has sassed them, taken their place at a restaurant counter or dared to assert their civil rights, the underlying reason was always racism. <br> Today, in echoes of the Jim Crow South, laws that target racial minorities and stifle a representative democracy are gaining momentum. Several white politicians are promoting voter ID laws, Immigration and Customs Enforcement raids and deportations, the war on drugs and other policies that largely penalize minority communities. They claim these measures are designed to "Make America Great Again," but really they are enacted to intimidate, scapegoat and suppress the rights of racial, ethnic and religious minorities. <br> Fortunately, there are efforts society can take to prevent the normalization of this kind of hate -- and the subsequent racial violence that accompanies it. To begin, we can teach the dark history of lynching in this country -- both in the classroom and at home. If young minds learn the truth, they can play a part in preventing history from repeating itself. <br> Finally, we must reject the mainstreaming of extremism by ensuring districts are truly representative of all of their constituents. Eliminating voter suppression and gerrymandering will create more diverse constituencies that elect moderate, sensitive and accountable leaders. <br> Stemming the tide of racial violence requires solutions that treat everyone with dignity, equality and respect. These three actions are a step in that direction.
