159
'apples
Rick Berke on Godfrey Sperling (1915-2013) - POLITICO Magazine
Politico
https://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2013/12/godfrey-sperling-obituary-101425
2013-12-22
Richard L. Berke
Talk about access. As a budding reporter for the Christian Science Monitor, Godfrey Sperling Jr. spent an entire day in 1959 with John F. Kennedy, sitting next to him on his private plane as he darted around the Midwest, preparing to run for president. Sperling interviewed Harry Truman in Independence, Mo., after Truman left the White House. There was also a post-White House visit with Ike Eisenhower at his home in Gettysburg, Penn. And in 1966, Sperling rode in the back seat of Ron and Nancy Reagan’s Chevrolet in California as Reagan was weighing a run for governor. <br> But Sperling, who died in September, two weeks short of his 98th birthday, will not be remembered for those journalistic coups. He will be remembered for hosting 3,241 breakfasts, at which Washington reporters would courteously probe politicians for news. The breakfasts, usually held at what is now the St. Regis Hotel, not far from the White House, began in 1966 and ran nearly four decades. <br> I was at Sperling’s last breakfast on Dec. 21, 2001. The guest was Tom Daschle, then Senate majority leader, but Sperling was the real newsmaker. Reporting for the New York Times, I knew the event was already a throwback, but looking back today, that last breakfast seems to belong to a more bygone era even than I could have imagined. <br> Sperling (whom everyone called “Budge,” a childhood nickname) and his breakfasts represented a more civil and unhurried period of Washington journalism that seems unfathomable in this age of tweets, in-the-moment analysis and unyielding news cycles. Much of it was probably for show, but reporters and pols behaved at those breakfasts as if they actually respected each other. And assembling everyone in a hotel banquet room was no easy feat, especially after the national traumas of the Vietnam War and Watergate, which severely tested relationships between the media and politicians. <br> Part of Sperling’s success was that, in contrast to so many of the partisan bloviators of today who call themselves journalists, he was fervently nonpartisan. He grew up in Urbana, Ill., and was not a man of artifice or snooty intellect. Rather than soundbites, he was in search of, dare I say, thoughtful conversation. <br> When I first started attending Sperling’s breakfasts, in the late 1980s, I felt like I was being given entry to a private club (a men’s club, in those days). At what then seemed the ungodly hour of 8 a.m. (there were no Mike Allens to get the online conversation started before dawn), reporters would assemble around the guest, notebooks and tape recorders in hand. Of course, there was no one texting or tweeting. No cell phones. A reporter sitting still for an hour? No distractions? Hard to fathom these days. <br> The first questions, always friendly and often rambling, would be asked by Sperling, whom the writer Nora Ephron once described as “a pleasant, fussy man who looks like Elmer Fudd and indeed occasionally gives the impression of being thoroughly befuddled.” <br> Sperling was not known for the prose in his columns; indeed, most of us never even read the Monitor. But he knew how to draw a quorum of the big honcho journalists of the day: David Broder, Peter Lisagor, Phil Potter, Jack Germond, Robert Novak, Hedrick Smith, Andy Glass and Jules Witcover were among the regulars over the years who would consume heaps of eggs and bacon and sausage. (Fruit was introduced in later years.) The breakfasts were probably most beneficial for those regional reporters in the capital who would not otherwise have access to big-name political figures. Another frequent attendee was Alan Emory, who ran the one-man bureau of the Watertown, N.Y., Daily Times from 1951 to 2000. (Thankfully, that’s one local paper that still exists, though it has shuttered its D.C. bureau.) <br> There were rules: Photographers were forbidden. Television journalists were forbidden. Wire service reporters were forbidden. The sessions were on the record, and while you weren’t supposed to say “Sperling breakfast” in your story, you could quote a politician speaking at “a breakfast with reporters.” <br> Stories didn’t “go viral” in those days, but on occasion the breakfasts did make news. Big news. Not necessarily because of pointed and probing questions from Sperling, but because he fostered an environment where politicians were relaxed enough to sometimes speak more truthfully than they intended. 
