172
'apples
Bolster spectrum for mobile use
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2013/06/smart-application-bolster-spectrum-for-mobile-use-092283
2013-06-05
Peter Cleveland
The ubiquitous smartphone and the app revolution it is enabling will be propelled or not by the availability of one essential input, radio spectrum. Like radio in your car or television in your home, mobile phone services need exclusive dedicated frequencies — called spectrum — to operate. The more spectrum available, the faster the speed of existing apps and the greater the potential for innovation of new ones. <br> There is no question that mobile technology has transformed our lives, making valuable information and entertainment accessible to millions of Americans from nearly anywhere at any time. Two weeks ago, Apple announced that customers have downloaded more than 50 billion apps. In just five years, the App Store has grown from 500 to 850,000 apps available on the iPhone. <br> As data-rich applications continue to grow, existing capacity is just not sufficient. <br> Fortunately for American mobile users, both houses of Congress are actively considering specific action to bolster the reallocation of spectrum for mobile broadband use, with a hearing this week in the Senate and later this month in the House. <br> Congress has attempted to strengthen and accelerate this process by creating significant incentives for commercial licensees to vacate their spectrum voluntarily. The “incentive auctions,” authorized by the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act, will allow the Federal Communications Commission to use some of the auction proceeds from selling cleared spectrum to mobile carriers to buy out willing TV broadcasters. <br> Another such tool is the Commercial Spectrum Enhancement Act, which established a mechanism for compensating federal users for the costs of relocating their systems to different frequencies. One band currently under intense study for relocation or sharing is the 1755-1850 MHz band, used largely by the Department of Defense. <br> Rep. Doris Matsui (D-Calif.) and Sen. John Thune (R-S.D.) have proposed legislation that would determine a sensible way forward. They believe that by focusing on the lower 25 MHz, the costs of moving existing government users (the auction reserve price) could drop to a point where a successful CSEA auction could be held in the near term. <br> Under the existing framework, however, incumbent federal users still stand to gain little from giving up spectrum, causing them to be overly conservative in estimating relocation costs and sharing opportunities. During a Senate hearing in March, former FCC Chairman Julius Genachowski advocated for the reallocation of government spectrum for commercial use, noting “the government has about 60 percent of the most desirable spectrum. And even though military needs in the U.S. are going up, that’s more than is necessary and a lot of it is ineffectively allocated.” <br> Chairman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) and Rep. Anna Eshoo (D-Calif.) also are discussing ways to encourage the Department of Defense and other government users to move to new frequencies. The two formed a spectrum reform task force, which is seeking ways for federal agencies to operate more efficiently. Given the cost of doing nothing, we need to think expansively. <br> The monies raised could be used to reduce the Defense Department’s exposure in the sequestration and other budget processes. Or create a presidential level award for select employees who generate the best ideas for improving the government’s use of the radio spectrum. Also, local and state governments could be empowered to negotiate with neighboring military installations to share the spectrum they are using. These installations have long had symbiotic relationships with their surrounding communities, sharing local resources such as roads and schools. Why not spectrum? <br> Indeed, the sale or sharing of federal spectrum could enhance defense capabilities by providing better, newer systems for mission critical projects, achieving the goal of all Americans to see our troops have every advantage. <br> It’s time to get creative. Last year, U.S. mobile networks carried 69 percent more data traffic than in the prior year, and the number of smartphones grew 36.4 percent, while even more data-hungry wireless-enabled devices, such as tablets and laptops, grew 10.2 percent. <br> The benefits of mobile computing cannot be overstated, from access to health care and education to monitoring energy consumption and social networks. The U.S. needs to secure the spectrum necessary to meet demand in this country. Congress should move forward with a framework that will maximize the efficient use of spectrum for the benefit of federal and commercial users and, most important, American consumers. <br> Peter Cleveland, vice president of Global Public Policy for Intel Corp. 
