193
'apples
Food stamps could use fresh options
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2012/05/food-stamps-could-use-fresh-options-075885
2012-05-03
Jason Ackerman
It’s no secret that the Internet has fundamentally changed how people live and the way businesses operate. Amazingly, government hasn’t gotten the message. <br> Critical government programs remain stuck in the past. Consider food stamp assistance — which could be significantly improved through the Internet. <br> Americans who depend on the federal Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program — known as food stamps — are unable to buy groceries from online vendors. The Electronic Benefits Transfer, the system that allows SNAP recipients to pay for groceries, does not support Internet transactions. <br> But Congress now has a unique opportunity to change this and bring some relief to millions of people. <br> A provision in the Senate farm bill, now making its way through the legislative process, would launch a pilot program to test and eventually give recipients of SNAP benefits the same access as every other American to online grocery retailers. More food stamp recipients then would be able to purchase fresh, healthful and quality food. <br> This important measure could help ensure that the millions of Americans who rely on nutrition assistance programs every year — including many elderly or disabled, who require delivery services — have a modern, convenient way in which to buy good food. <br> The effect could be enormous. More than 46 million Americans received food stamps in January, according to Agriculture Department statistics. The number of recipients has risen steadily throughout the economic crisis — 31.9 million used the program in January 2009. <br> Though unemployment has recently declined, food stamp enrollment in 2011 reached an all-time high, according to a report by Bloomberg Government. Historically, enrollment in SNAP has risen and fallen in tandem with unemployment . But as more Americans find themselves underemployed, an increasing number of them are depending on food assistance. <br> In New York, the situation is no better. More than 1.8 million New Yorkers relied on food stamps in March of 2011, according to the New York City Human Resources Administration, up from 1.1 million in 2007. <br> I co-founded FreshDirect, one of the largest online food retailers in the New York City area, and we want to expand access to fresh, healthful foods throughout the region. We would like our groceries available to all who depend on food stamps. <br> We also believe the way to decrease the skyrocketing rates of obesity and diabetes that plague so many in low-income neighborhoods is to make healthful foods more accessible and convenient. <br> FreshDirect has advocated for food stamp modernization for many years. This legislation could be the first step to bringing healthful food to food stamp recipients. <br> If Congress passes this important farm bill provision, we are ready to participate in the online EBT pilot program. Updating the food stamp system to allow recipients to purchase groceries online is not just a convenience in this difficult economy — it is a necessity. <br> More and more, statistics show, food stamp recipients are not necessarily unemployed. Rather, they are low-income workers — balancing part-time jobs and parenting. They may not have the time or the means to trek to a grocery store in another neighborhood to buy fresh, healthful food. <br> Congress must act now to ensure that all Americans have an easier and more reliable way of getting quality food. FreshDirect will be there — to support this long overdue change. <br> Jason Ackerman is co-founder and chief executive officer of FreshDirect. 
