78
'apples
If you work for our government, you must pay your taxes: Tax cheats shouldn't be working for We the People
Foxnews
http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2015/04/15/if-work-for-our-government-must-pay-your-taxes-tax-cheats-shouldnt-be-working.html
2015-04-15
Jason Chaffetz
Whether we like it or not, the law requires that we pay taxes. Unfortunately, a significant number of federal workers have failed to do so and are responsible for $1 billion in unpaid taxes. Those charged with the stewardship of our federal resources and programs should not be among the most delinquent taxpayers. <br> This week the House of Representatives will consider two bills to hold federal employees and federal contractors accountable for their tax delinquent status. The bills provide that individuals with seriously delinquent tax debts would be ineligible for federal employment or federal contracts. Those who are in the process of making a good faith effort to fulfill their tax obligations will not be affected by the legislation. <br> Even more troubling is the growth of the problem. In the last ten years, the dollar amount of past-due taxes owed by federal government employees has nearly doubled. Meanwhile, bonuses have flowed freely. From October 2010 to December 2012, 2800 federal employees who had disciplinary issues received more than $2.8 million in bonuses. Of those, more than 1,100 did not pay their own taxes and were still awarded with over $1 million in bonuses. It’s clear that consequences for tax delinquency are needed. <br> In addition to tax delinquency rates in the federal workforce, we also have a problem among federal contractors. A July 2014 GAO Report indicated federal contractors in the Department of Defense alone owe more than $350 million in back taxes. Given that the federal government spends more on contract employees than on public employees, this is a significant problem. <br> It is an honor and a privilege to serve in the federal workforce and it is disheartening that so many federal workers are behind on taxes. These employees are not exempt from their civic responsibility to fulfill tax obligations and those who refuse to pay what they owe should be held accountable.
