99
'apples
The Bay of Pigs, 50 Years Later: How Could We Have Been So Stupid?
Foxnews
http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2011/04/17/bay-pigs-50-years-later-stupid.html
2011-04-17
None
Long before the intervention in Libya -- before Afghanistan or Iraq, or even Vietnam -- the United States found itself involved in a peculiar operation on the southern coast of Cuba, at a place called the Bay of Pigs. <br> Sunday is the 50th anniversary of the invasion of Cuba, and it arrives with Kennedy’s question still begging for an answer. Not just regarding the Bay of Pigs, but a host of other entanglements that followed. The United States went on to engage in no fewer than two dozen forceful foreign interventions after 1961, from Southeast Asia to the Middle East and Central America. And that was just the 20th century. Then came the 21st, and 9/11, and Iraq and Afghanistan. And now, Libya. <br> Given the variety of American interventions -- some small, others massive; some covert, others overt; some undertaken for humanitarian goals, others for self-interest or self-defense -- it may be misleading to lump apples and oranges and draw conclusions about the fruits they bear. Nonetheless, if there is one element that nearly all U.S. interventions have shared since the Bay of Pigs -- the elephant, as it were, in the Situation Room -- it is their tendency to merit the observation Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr. made in his journal after the 1961 debacle: “We not only look like imperialists; we look like ineffectual imperialists, which is worse,” wrote the presidential adviser; “and we look like stupid, ineffectual imperialists, which is worst of all.” <br> Regarding the current intervention in Libya, President Obama has assured us we will not be there long this spring. But Obama, born four months after the Bay of Pigs, has lived through enough of these interventions to know that reality has its own way of intervening on even the best laid plans. Already, the days have turned into weeks, and soon will become months. <br> By the same token, when a president tells the American people that an intervention will be quick and painless, he should be greeted with no less skepticism than you’d give a home-improvement contractor bidding to renovate your kitchen. You can be pretty sure the job’s going to cost twice as much and last twice as long as promised. If you’re lucky. <br> Jim Rasenberger (jimrasenberger.com) is the author of the new book, “The Brilliant Disaster – JFK, Castro, and America’s Doomed Invasion of Cuba’s Bay of Pigs.” 
