234
'apples
Bush leaves gift of education reform behind
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2009/01/bush-leaves-gift-of-education-reform-behind-017451
2009-01-15
Richard Whitmire
Back in 1997, I visited two Houston elementary schools, Roosevelt and Benbrook, located only a couple of miles apart in equally disadvantaged neighborhoods serving equally disadvantaged students. Roosevelt was hitting academic home runs, while Benbrook lagged far behind. <br> Why the difference? My story attempted to answer that question, but in hindsight the answer was less important than the fact that I was able to even pose the question. I went to Houston because Texas had a revolutionary school accountability system that tracked children by race and economic background, thus allowing apples-to-apples comparisons of which schools were doing the best job with the kids they were handed. <br> I wasn’t alone in noticing the potential of accountability by the numbers. Then-Gov. George W. Bush, who inherited that system, noticed it as well, inspiring him to make school reform the stuffing inside his “compassionate conservatism” theme in the 2000 presidential election. Surely you have not forgotten the “bigotry of low expectations.” Among soccer moms, that bumped up Bush on the comfort-level meter just enough to neutralize the traditional 15-to-20-point advantage Democrats traditionally enjoy on education issues. The rest is history. <br> Cynics assumed the Republican school reform rhetoric would quickly evaporate, but once in Washington, Bush shocked House conservatives by promptly acting on his campaign pledge. (Then-Rep. Tom DeLay (R-Texas) once confessed to Rush Limbaugh his distaste for supporting Bush education reforms, saying that abolishing the Department of Education was his true preference.) Bush, however, didn’t need their support. Once he convinced key liberals such as Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) and Education Trust’s Kati Haycock that he believed education reform was the new frontier in the civil rights struggle, a bipartisan effort then produced No Child Left Behind, the education law signed on January 2002. NCLB was a mirror image of what I saw in Houston that day. <br> The law judges schools by the job they do for all children, not just the easy-to-teach children. Suddenly, hundreds of schools that had been hiding their failures to teach poor and minority students behind school averages were outed, which was appropriate. That brand of school accountability, known to education insiders as disaggregated data, is not just George W. Bush’s education legacy; it’s the jewel of any domestic achievement. Over time, I’m guessing, it will trump any overseas accomplishments, such as ramping up the AIDS fight in Africa. 
