215
'apples
Filibuster reforms small steps
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2011/01/filibuster-reforms-small-steps-048280
2011-01-27
Diana Lee
With the start of a new session, the time was ripe for the Senate to reform its archaic procedural rules and curb obstruction – to do something about rampant filibuster abuse. <br> There had been much talk about comprehensive rules reform, but Senate leadership is now considering only a limited set of changes – namely, abolishing secret holds and streamlining the nominee confirmation process. It has apparently missed its opportunity for real reform. <br> To be sure, these changes represent steps – albeit baby ones – in the right direction. But they do not come close to addressing the root causes of Senate dysfunction. Here’s why: <br> First, these proposals would not be implemented through an official rules change. Instead, they rely on a “gentleman’s agreement,” an informal handshake between the parties. <br> This is already suspect. If the Senate were actually comprised of gentlemen and gentlewomen committed to institutional comity, it wouldn’t be riddled with gridlock in the first place. <br> In fact, secret holds are already banned. The 2007 Honest Leadership and Open Government Act requires senators to publicly disclose their holds within five days. Most senators, however, routinely dodge this rule with a tag-team-hold technique. By passing off an anonymous hold to a cooperating senator (think relay runners) just before the five-day limit expires, a few senators can maintain a secret hold indefinitely – without technically violating the rules. <br> The current proposal to ban secret holds would change nothing. It is not a meaningful fix because it lacks any enforcement mechanism. <br> Similarly, reducing the number of executive appointments that need to be confirmed by the Senate also skirts the underlying issues. This move may lessen the logjam somewhat. But there will still be dozens, even hundreds, of nominees in limbo, while essential executive positions remain unfilled. <br> Senators are still likely to place indefinite, anonymous holds on uncontroversial executive nominations to extract concessions on unrelated issues. Despite Chief Justice John Roberts’ public rebuke of the Senate for partisan game-playing that has created “judicial vacancies in critically overworked districts,” the current reform proposal would not address the judicial nomination crisis at all. <br> The current proposal thus contains minor fixes that ignore the core problem: The Senate’s procedural rules incentivize the wrong things. Under the current system, obstruction, partisan maneuvering and strategic gamesmanship predominate. There is little genuine debate on the critical issues facing our country. 
