227
'apples
Arena Digest: NYC terror trials
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2009/11/arena-digest-nyc-terror-trials-029628
2009-11-18
POLITICO Staff
POLITICO's Arena contributors ask if Obama has ‘bet his presidency’ on the outcome of the NYC terror trials. <br> Steven Calabresi, professor, Northwestern University School of Law <br> “Obama has lived up to his oath of office by scheduling these trials before a life-tenured judge and jury. Suppose some on the left called for John Yoo and all the interrogators at the CIA to be tried before a military commission with no life-tenured judge or jury? They were, after all, officers in the war on terror assisting the commander in chief on a military mission. Why shouldn’t they get a court-martial instead of a trial before a life-tenured judge and a jury? <br> “The answer is that the Constitution’s separation of powers provides that, while Congress makes the law and the president executes it or enforces it, only the life-tenured Article III courts assisted by a jury can impose punishments. The constitutional way to punish the 9/11 terrorists is the same way we would use to punish military interrogators who violated the law against torture. No Article III court or jury — no constitutional power to punish. It is a simple question of the separation of powers — something I had thought conservatives believed in passionately.” <br> Richard Albert, professor, Boston College Law School <br> “The president did not bet his presidency on the outcome of the 9/11 trials — the attorney general did it for him. By choosing a civilian court over a military tribunal, the attorney general has unfortunately chosen to prosecute the 9/11 conspirators as criminals rather than as the terrorists they really are. Civilian courts are not the proper forum within which to try terrorists because civilian courts lack the special national security procedures available in military tribunals alone.” <br> James P. Pinkerton, fellow, New America Foundation <br> “It’s not so much that Obama has bet his presidency on the outcome of the [Khalid Sheikh Mohammed] terror trial, it’s that Obama is betting his presidency on being more politically correct than George W. Bush. And that’s risky, as all those PC pieties are now crashing down amid an ongoing clash of civilizations, as shots and bombs go off in Fort Hood and Kabul — and all across the ‘bloody borders’ of Islam, as the late Samuel Huntington described them. <br> “But it was Bush, not Obama, who declared, back in 2001, that ‘Islam is peace.’ Such sentiments didn’t keep the 43rd president from fighting in Iraq, of course, but as part of his liberation theory, he was required to believe that the only thing standing between Muslims and loving America was a few bad-apple governments. ... <br> “So Obama could have swept into power pushing a new broom, applying a neo-realist vision to the challenges of homeland security as well as national security. After the Fort Hood shooting, he could have guided investigators to the obvious conclusion: that the policies that made America safe for Nidal Hasan were all implemented in the Bush 43 era or before, and that he, Obama, would make the necessary hard-nosed changes to make Americans safer. But that would have been too easy. Instead, our Nobel laureate president must prove that the cure for the ailments of PC is more PC. <br> Bernard Finel, senior fellow, American Security Project <br> “It is hard to see how these trials could become a defining moment for this administration given the other challenges it faces and initiatives it has launched. There is something disturbing and slightly pathological about the response of many conservatives to the idea of respecting the rule of law in dealing with terrorism. And their preference, essentially, for unfettered presidential authority seems at odds with their oft-expressed skepticism about the intentions and capacity of the U.S. government.” <br> Be a part of the daily political debate with PROJECT POLITICO powered by YouTube. Click here to submit your video now and be featured on POLITICO.com. 
