94
'apples
My 2012 To-Do List for President Obama
Foxnews
http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2012/01/03/my-2012-to-do-list-for-president-obama.html
2012-01-03
None
We all know the New Year is the time for reflection and resolutions.President Obamacould afford to do some reflection of his own, both on the policies his administration has pursued that have hurt our economy, andwhathe can do tostart to reversethat damage in the coming election year. <br> First, he should resolve todo away with rules and proposed rules that will handcuff innovators. <br> The first part of Obama’s New Year’s resolution should be to roll back existing rules and abandon proposed rules that stifle innovation. Whether it’sburdensome visa requirementsthat negatively impact our travel industry or cumbersome Food and Drug Administrationpolicies, regulation is smothering innovation and our economy.The Department of Energy, the Environmental Protection Agency and other agencies haveproposed and issued scores of new rules and proposalsthat most businesses have trouble simply tracking, much less observing. <br> And this summer, the NLRB released new rules that are designed to make unionization easier by dismissing the privacy rights, internal policies and IT systems of U.S. employers. Earlier, NLRB blocked Boeing from opening a factory in South Carolina, supposedly because Boeing built the facility to spite union workers in Washington. <br> The PROTECT IP Act in the Senate (S.968) and the Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA) in the House (H.R.3261) are supposedly aimed at countering foreign piracy websites that steal and distribute copyrighted content. No one disagrees with that goal. But PROTECT IP and SOPA reach far over that goal by requiring Internet service providers to blacklist any website that even links to a piracy site or advertises a product the rights holders view as enabling infringement. This could spell disaster for video sharing sites like YouTube, or search engine sites like Google. <br> As the second part of Obama’s 2012 resolution, apro-active innovation agendawould free business and markets up to inject new life into the American economy by creating new products and new jobs. <br> Congress could also authorize the Federal Communications Commission to make more spectrumavailable for broadband Internet use. A spectrum auction would raise an estimated $33 billion for the federal government and empower telecommunications companies to continue innovating in handheld devices. <br> As the president and his team regroup for 2012and try to figure out how to market an unpopular president in an election year, they should focus on improving the economy by resolving to make decisions and enact policies that allow businesses to continue innovating.Given what we’ve seen in the previous three years, the business community has its doubts. <br> Gary Shapiro is president and CEO of the Consumer Electronics Association (CEA), the U.S. trade association representing more than 2,000 consumer electronics companies, and author of the New York Times bestselling book,“The Comeback: How Innovation Will Restore the American Dream.”
