174
'apples
Radical connectivity rewriting rules
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2013/04/internet-elections-technology-connectivity-090089
2013-04-15
Nicco Mele
At this very moment, likely at no less than a dozen kitchen tables, there are a handful of people contemplating a run for the presidency in 2016. Odds are good they’re all over 50, which means they were in college around the time Apple released the first Macintosh computer. And as they plot their way to Iowa and New Hampshire, they have a new variable to reckon with: a technology-media landscape that is rewriting the rules of politics. <br> The combination of the Internet and mobile phones — a combination I call radical connectivity — dramatically unsettles politics by empowering upstarts and insurgents and dramatically lowering the advantages enjoyed by established incumbents. <br> We’re in the midst of a dramatic change — about a decade into it by my account. Over the past five years — from Obama’s defeat of Hillary Clinton, to the rise of the tea party and its success in the 2010 elections, to the Arab Spring movement of the past 12 months — we are seeing the political and governmental institutions of our time encounter the people-powered organic movements of the digital age. <br> Establishment outsider Gary Hart quite literally lost the 1984 Democratic primary because his staff was unable to process small-dollar donations as fast as they received them. Checks were mailed to his Senate office, then had to be rerouted to his campaign office, then the out-of-state checks took weeks to clear the banks. Hart went bankrupt against Walter Mondale’s well-funded but soon-to-be-vanquished campaign. <br> That began to change in 2003. I got involved with Howard Dean because I wanted to donate to his campaign to support his policies. After I discovered that it was almost impossible to figure out how to send him money online, I wound up moving to Vermont to be his webmaster. <br> A few months later, we had raised $7 million in just a few days, shocking the Democratic establishment and making Dean a brief front-runner. <br> Following Dean’s model, the Obama campaign was able to use the Internet to mount an unthinkable challenge to Hillary Clinton. In 2007, the Democratic Party was for the most part still the party that Bill and Hillary built. The dominant narrative of the campaign right up until Iowa was that Obama was too new and too young and couldn’t beat Hillary. 
