81
'apples
Daniel Garza: It's Time To Share The Dream
Foxnews
http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2014/01/14/daniel-garza-it-time-to-share-dream.html
2014-01-14
Daniel Garza
The advent of a New Year typically signals renewal — the portent of spring. But the promise of a “new start” is diminished for many, as millions across America are scrimping to make ends meet. <br> We must become that America again that welcomed those yearning to be free, those seeking opportunity and those who believed in themselves. <br> There are signs of more serious trouble ahead; the business creation rate, which climbed or stayed stable throughout the recession and into the “recovery,” has fallen the last two years. This suggests America is no longer creating the new small businesses that will employ the workers of tomorrow. America’s great companies and biggest employers – the Apples, Walmarts, and others – all began as small startups. Blocking those small businesses from getting started will hurt badly down the road. <br> In its ill-calculated actions this administration has advanced a variety of laws, dictates and regulations that have increased government’s power, but made the governed powerless; allowed bureaucrats to have increased control, but made we the people the controlled; and endowed Washington and Wall Street with taxpayer money to flourish, while making those of us in Main Street suffer under increased taxation and the imposition of Obamacare. <br> What’s happening to the land of opportunity — to a land where hard work was rewarded, and where anyone could build a better future for the next generation? What has happened to the American Dream? <br> I’m saying we need a comeback, a real one – one sustained on self-responsibility, rugged individualism and the spirit of market capitalism that typified America’s most industrious, most prosperous epochs. It’s time for an agenda that renews and restores the American Dream. <br> Reforms like this will make it easier to start and grow small businesses — without crushing taxes and regulation to cope with. Today, costly mandates prevent many entrepreneurs from pursuing their dreams, and make it harder for low-skilled workers to find jobs. New industries, processes and technologies make it easier for people to innovate and take control of their lives — if Washington will get out of the way. Washington needs to recognize that and empower people to do so. <br> We must become that America again that welcomed those yearning to be free, those seeking opportunity and those who believed in themselves. We must not rise up against the immigrant seeking opportunity, but rise up against a government that would stifle opportunity. <br> Share the dream. To do that, we must be a free people and a free nation — a government of the people, by the people and for the people, again. <br> Daniel Garza is president and chairman of The LIBRE Institute. You can see here a video of the author explaining the High School Diploma Initiative here.
