106
'apples
THE FIRST 100 DAYS: An Administration Filled With Far-Left Extremists
Foxnews
http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2009/04/25/days-administration-filled-far-left-extremists.html
2009-04-25
Peter Roff
Sat, 25 Apr 2009 01:48:23 +0000 By Peter RoffFellow, Institue for Liberty/Former Senior Political Writer, United Press International <br> Blackwell's observation speaks a great truth about American government. Since no one man or woman can do it all, alone, we have followed the French in the development of bureaucratic systems that allow for power and authority to be delegated to subordinates who are responsible, on a daily basis, for the administration of public policy. It is these people, even more than the president, who directly impact the way policies are developed and carried out. <br> Throughout the 2008 presidential campaign, Barack Obama presented himself to the American people as a change-oriented centrist, slightly to the left of the middle of the road. The way he has governed over his first 100 days, however, shows him to be anything but the image he projected, particularly where many of his appointments are concerned. And it is these appointments that will determine the direction of policy in his administration over the next four years. <br> Then there is Attorney General Eric Holder, who prior to his appointment may have been best known for helping fugitive financier Marc Rich obtain a pardon in the waning days of the Clinton administration. Since coming into office, however, he shocked the nation when, during a presentation to mark Black History month, he called America a nation of cowards on the issue of race. Writer Joe Klein, who is generally sympathetic to the liberal point of view, denounced Holder for his remarks, saying they provided absolutely no acknowledgement of the incredible progress that has been made over the last 40 or 50 years. <br> But it's not just the apples at the top of the barrel that are reason to be suspicious that a leftward drift is underway. There are plenty of secondary appointments, not all of which are subject to the Senate's advice and consent, which make up the new administration's gallery of liberal rogues. <br> More recently, in 2006, Holdren suggested that global sea levels could rise by 13 feet by the end of this century. The 2007 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's Fourth Assessment Report suggests a potential sea level rise of just 13 inches. <br> Koh is, as columnist Andy McCarthy has written, a radical trans-nationalist. His view is that the United States is not, in essence, an independent nation with a natural right to govern its own national security. Rather Koh's view is this country should be governed by a trans-national jurisprudence that assumes America's political and economic interdependence with other nations operating within the international legal system. In Koh's world, U.S. law should be subordinate to some kind of international code. <br> Hardly the calm, rational and reasoned approach one has every right to expect from a senior Pentagon adviser. <br> And then there's Dawn Johnson, who was nominated to be assistant attorney general and head of DOJ's Office of Legal Counsel, who has written that abortion restrictions reduce pregnant women to no more than fetal containers and who has opposed the U.S. Supreme Court's decision to uphold a ban on partial birth abortion.
