98
'apples
Matt Damon's Silly Teacher Rant
Foxnews
http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2011/08/05/matt-damons-silly-teacher-rant.html
2011-08-05
Michelle Malkin
Actor Matt Damon is a walking public-service reminder to immunize your children early and often against La-La Land disease.In Damon’s world, all public-school teachers are selfless angels. Government workers and Hollywood entertainers are impervious to economic incentives. Anyone who disagrees is a know-nothing, “corporate reformer” ingrate who hates education. <br> What Damon’s superficial tirade lacked, however, was any real-world understanding of the deterioration of core-curricular learning in America. Students can’t master simple division or fractions because today’s teachers -- churned out through lowest-common-denominator grad schools and shielded from competition -- have barely mastered those skills themselves. Un-educators have abandoned “drill-and-kill” computation for multicultural claptrap and fuzzy math, traded in grammar fundamentals for “creative spelling” and dropped standard civics for save-the-earth propaganda. <br> Out: Reading is fundamental. <br> After his drippy pep talk absolving teachers of any responsibility for America's educational morass, Damon lashed out at a young reporter who had the audacity to ask him about the negative impact of lifetime teacher tenure. “In acting, there isn’t job security, right,” Reason.tv's Michelle Fields asked Damon. “There is an incentive to work hard and be a better actor because you want to have a job. So why isn't it like that for teachers?” <br> “You think job insecurity makes me work hard?” he retorted. “That's like saying a teacher is going to get lazy when she has tenure.” Damon unleashed crude profanities on Fields. “A teacher wants to teach,” Damon fumed with his mother next to him. “Why else would you take a sh- -ty” salary and really long hours and do that job unless you really loved to do it? <br> Damon went on to deride standard, mainstream behavioral economic principles as “intrinsically paternalistic” and “MBA-style thinking.” And when the young reporter's cameraman pointed out that there are bad apples in the teaching profession as in any profession, Damon called him “sh--ty,” too. <br> Interminable teacher tenure in America's largest school districts, from New York to Chicago to Los Angeles, has produced a rotten corps of incompetent (at best) and dangerous (at worst) educators coddled by Big Labor. As the DC-based Center for Union reports, “In many major cities, only one out of 1,000 teachers is fired for performance-related reasons. . . . In 10 years, only about 47 out of 100,000 teachers were actually terminated from New Jersey's schools.” <br> In Los Angeles, it’s not just meanie Tea Partiers making the case for abolishing teacher tenure. When the Los Angeles Times exposed how the city's tenure evaluation system rubber-stamped approvals and ignored actual performance, the district superintendent admitted: “Too many ineffective teachers are falling into tenured positions -- the equivalent of jobs for life.” USC education professor Julie Slayton acknowledged: “It's ridiculous and should be changed.” <br> Michelle Malkin is a New York Post columnist and Fox News contributor.
