65
'apples
VA Secretary David Shulkin: Our plan to deliver greater accountability to America's veterans
Foxnews
http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2017/03/01/va-secretary-david-shulkin-our-plan-to-deliver-greater-accountability-to-americas-veterans.html
2017-03-01
David Shulkin
On February 28, 2017 President Trump, while addressing a Joint Session of Congress, once again identified accountability in the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) as a top priority. The President is right, veterans deserve much better. <br> If there is evidence that an employee has broken the law, caused harm to veterans, or have violated the public trust, they should be terminated immediately. Instead, due to overly cumbersome and lengthy arbitrations as well as extensive bureaucratic red tape, VA has not been able to remove employees as quickly as we would have liked. Some employees, like the former VA pharmacist who was stealing medications, have simply retired before VA was able to fire them – allowing them to avoid accountability all together. This is unacceptable. <br> Just a few days ago, one of our Veterans Integrated Support Network directors proposed the removal of another medical center director. These actions are examples of the strong leadership we need to cultivate in VA. There should be no doubt that VA will seek greater accountability going forward. <br> It is critical for us to set politics aside and tackle these challenges together. We won’t succeed with a bill that only partially solves the problem. <br> Accountability is a two way street. We can’t just make it easier for us to fire people, we must make it easier for us to hire people. <br> The VA must be able to compete effectively with private sector health care organizations to recruit doctors, nurses, administrators, and other key staff. <br> If given direct hiring authority, comparable pay, schedule flexibility and the ability to offer competitive recruitment, relocation, and retention incentives, VA will be able to attract and retain world class talent. <br> I am confident that if Congress grants VA additional authority and flexibility, both veterans and our employees will be better served.
