202
'apples
Steve Jobs: The Black Swan CEO
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2011/10/steve-jobs-the-black-swan-ceo-065388
2011-10-07
Blair Levin
The biggest mistake I ever made as a Wall Street analyst was my review of the iPhone. When it was introduced, I titled my comments: “What is the Black Swan of Telecom? Hint: It’s not the iPhone.” <br> I learned two lessons. One, sadly, is no longer relevant: Never underestimate Steve Jobs. The second is eternal: Never underestimate human creativity in changing a business equation. <br> In my review, I focused too much on the contractual relationship between device manufacturers and service providers. That remained unchanged. What Jobs and Apple focused on, however, was the value creation made possible through a platform anchored by a beautiful — not just functional — smart phone. That changed many things — including the relative values of Apple and the service providers. <br> I should have known better. For of the thousands of meetings I have had in nearly two decades in the telecom ecosystem, four stand out. Three of those were with Steve Jobs.(The other was with Wynton Marsalis). <br> I think it is because, though both men had strong, clear visions, neither had an agenda. Their words possessed an integrity inevitably difficult when one is, say, discussing technical rules for unbundling networks with a CEO whose stock will go up or down depending on the outcome. <br> Jobs – and Marsalis — combined perfectionism on technical details with a capability of communicating an aesthetic vision that retains the same power — whether in a room of thousands or in a one-on-one conversation, whether it occurred yesterday or a decade ago. <br> What made these meetings with Jobs perhaps most memorable was that he had mastered the rare art of appearing completely transparent and sincere — while also being a master showman. At that level, an act is no longer an act. <br> Jobs was interested in things that government can do — the one meeting at his request, in summer 2007, concerned spectrum policy and a coming auction. But his faith, ultimately, was in his ability to provide consumers experiences they would love. This gave him a Zen-like indifference to major policy issues. 
