175
'apples
CPI myths unchained
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2013/04/cpi-myths-unchained-089957
2013-04-12
Jonathan Cowan
You walk through the Safeway deli section looking for lunch meat. The sliced turkey is what you wanted, but the price is a little high. So you check out the ham, like the price, toss it in the cart and go merrily on your way. Watch out - you’ve just committed chain-weighted CPI. <br> This choice — turkey or ham — is at the heart of a political civil war because how we measure the Consumer Price Index (CPI) determines everything from the setting of tax brackets to cost-of-living adjustments for those receiving Social Security. Now that President Obama has proposed chained CPI in his latest budget, this arcane technical fix to the measurement of inflation has become the Battle of Gettysburg between those with fiscal concerns about Social Security and those without. Some progressives are even calling for primary opponents against other Democrats who support fixing Social Security with this change. <br> In the red glare of battle, truth is sometimes a casualty. We’ve assembled the five myths, and some much needed truth, about chained CPI. <br> Myth 1: It’s a radical new idea. Chained CPI is a commonly accepted cost-of-living index. It simply accounts for consumer choice when the price of one product rises and the price of a ready substitute does not. It acknowledges that if the price of orange juice rises by a quarter but the price of apple juice remains the same, some consumers will go with apple juice and not pay more. And it recognizes that some products (like gasoline) are less easy to substitute than others (like hot dogs). <br> Myth 2: It’s bureaucrats gone wild. Actually, the stat hounds at the Bureau of Labor Statistics make adjustments to the inflation formula all the time, including six major revisions since the CPI was created during World War I. Most major adjustments have led to lower estimates of inflation. What makes chained CPI different is that because of technical reasons, its adoption requires congressional approval. <br> Myth 3: It’s a huge benefit change. Chained CPI would shave only about 0.3 percent off of Social Security COLAs — and recent trends suggest it would be less. Over ten years, that would amount to roughly $100 billion in Social Security savings. Compared to the $11.1 trillion we are expected to spend, it’s about a 1 percent reduction. 
