241
'apples
Sensible steps needed for Piracy U
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2007/12/sensible-steps-needed-for-piracy-u-007149
2007-12-03
Dan Glickman
It’s no secret the U.S. economy is at a defining moment. From the subprime mortgage crisis to the rapid emergence of China and other quickly developing economies, America’s leadership will be tested as never before. <br> In the future, our place in the world will be determined less by the sweat of our brows and more by the value created with our minds — by the intellect and ingenuity of the next generation of American innovators. <br> Many of these future leaders can today be found at our nation’s institutions of higher learning, honing the knowledge, skills and worldviews that will guide their, and our, future. This so-called Net generation is different from those who came before, in no small way due to its fluency in all that the digital age makes possible — both legally and illegally. <br> As the digital future unfolds, it can be no surprise that colleges and universities — and the robust data networks they operate — are emerging as a pivotal petri dish in the vast global experiment under way to safeguard the value of intellectual property in the digital era. <br> We can’t afford to fail. It’s no secret the motion picture industry made fighting piracy its No. 1 priority — alongside producing great content for consumers around the world. <br> Causing annual losses totaling $18 billion, digital theft is no small matter to us. But more broadly relevant to the country, the motion picture, music, computer software, video game and publishing industries — intellectual property industries all — account for nearly 13 percent of U.S. economic growth. <br> Whether the issue is Social Security, health care or job opportunities, a healthy, growing national economy is central to how we address the important challenges before us — and our economic fate is increasingly tied to the future of intellectual property. <br> Today, we know that more than 40 percent of U.S. piracy losses — approximately $500 million each year — are attributed to college students illegally sharing files over peer-to-peer networks. In my view, it’s not an indictment of “kids these days.” <br> They are merely the first tech-fluent generation to be faced with this ripe, gleaming apple. What we see in this current dilemma is a glimpse of what is to come if we do not move very quickly to build a broad strategy for shoring up the intellectual property underpinnings of our digital economy. <br> Fortunately, the stakes are well-understood by many leaders in Congress. <br> Recently, House Education and Labor Committee Chairman George Miller (D-Calif.) introduced the reauthorization of the Higher Education Act, which included appropriate, minimally invasive steps to enlist America’s publicly funded universities and colleges in this all-important effort. <br> The legislation will be considered by the full House soon, and the Motion Picture Association of America supports its passage. <br> This legislation calls on universities to educate students and staff on campus anti-piracy policies. It offers grants to those seeking new technology and educational solutions to help manage their networks with respect for copyright law. <br> And it asks universities to provide the secretary of education with a plan of action for addressing this challenge to their taxpayer-subsidized networks. (Universities already routinely produce similar reports on topics ranging from campus security to binge drinking.) <br> Intellectual property industries have a duty to aid these efforts. Companies such as those I represent are investing substantial resources in developing technologies that can help universities and all network operators quickly and seamlessly identify unauthorized content, protecting intellectual property and clearing a path to the growing array of legitimate (and often free) avenues to content. <br> These efforts are producing a variety of workable solutions that many universities already have deployed, saving them money while helping them effectively manage world-class research and education networks. <br> The MPAA also has created an education department to build its relationships with the higher education community and to explore additional opportunities to play a supportive role as universities engage in these efforts. <br> America’s institutions of higher education remain vital incubators of ideas and innovation. We need their participation and leadership on this central question of America’s economic future. <br> Congress is right to ask that respect for intellectual property rights register in a meaningful way on the radar of the nation’s publicly funded universities. I look forward to the day when the debate is not if we will work together but how we will do so most effectively. <br> Dan Glickman is chairman and CEO of the Motion Picture Association of America. 
