272
bananas'
Otto Reich: Corruption and Abuse of Power Infest Honduras Presidential Race
Foxnews
http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2012/11/15/otto-reich-corruption-and-abuse-power-infest-honduras-presidential-race.html
2012-11-15
Otto Reich
During the recently concluded U.S. presidential campaign, many Latin American journalists and academics asked why Latin America was hardly mentioned. Although Gov. Romney did mention the region in each of the three debates, the question deserves a more complete answer. This region is far too important to the U.S. to be ignored so widely by U.S. political leaders. Why is it? <br> Fearful voters do not always make the best choices. Sometimes they need a little help from friends that live in countries with a free press. <br> Seldom do serious, wise, or even honest faces symbolize the rich continent to our South. Is it any wonder then, that senior policy-makers in the U.S. Government have difficulty focusing on this region? It is especially hard when those policy-makers have access to information that documents the abuse of power, moral degradation and illicit enrichment in which many foreign “leaders” engage. <br> Besides being dishonest and dangerous (for example, all the above preside over rampantly corrupt governments and some have close ties with Iran, regional terrorist groups or organized crime) these rulers have something else in common: they were all originally elected in votes that were relatively free and fair. We must ask how is it possible that otherwise intelligent constituencies choose so poorly? One reason is that they lack in balanced information about their candidates and leaders. In Latin America the press is frequently afraid of reporting negative material about powerful people running for office (for good reason, since scores of honest reporters have been and continue to be killed while investigating wrongdoing). <br> Mr. Rosenthal is the scion of what is alleged to be the richest family in Honduras. The family conglomerate, Grupo Continental, owns some of the leading companies in Honduras: banks, insurance, engineering and construction, newspapers, television, cable TV, cement alligator skins, coffee growing, free zone assembly plants, food packing, sugar, residential developments, bananas, cattle and sheep breeding and cacao, among others. <br> Since 2007, the Rosenthal telecommunications firm Cable Color has been accused by Honduran and international authorities of illegal use of its telephone lines for “grey traffic.” Grey traffic is the false reporting of international long distance calls as domestic calls, thus avoiding additional charges associated with international calls, such as payment for the use of underwater cables, of international taxes paid to the foreign governments where the calls originate or terminate, etc. In Honduras, international traffic is controlled by the public telephone company, Hondutel, which is – or would be if were operated honestly and efficiently – the single largest source of revenue to the state. <br> Even in a country with a long history of high-level corruption, Chimirri and Zelaya’s avarice was unprecedented. In order to hide the plundering of Hondutel through the use of grey traffic by companies owned by their allies such as the Rosenthals, Chimirri and Zelaya designed a cynical smoke screen reminiscent of the famous order “round up the usual suspects” in the movie Casablanca. <br> That company still owes Hondutel the local currency equivalent of $259,044 for the use of submarine telephone cables. This figure is a pittance, however, in relation to the $5 Million per month – half its earnings - that Hondutel’s income dropped under Chimirri’s “management” because of the grey traffic scheme. <br> A pending lawsuit accuses members of the Board of Banco Continental and members of the board of the Rosenthal newspaper Tiempo (Editorial Honduras) of the crime of “infidencia,” or using the newspaper to publish confidential information to the detriment of official investigations of the National Banking and Insurance Commission. Moreover, the newspaper’s labor union has complained that the Rosenthals refuse to pay their “labor obligations” (equivalent to employees benefits in the U.S.). <br> The reason I am writing this article is because I was asked to do so by some honest persons I know in Honduras. When I inquired why they did not do so themselves, they frankly admitted that they are afraid. They point to cases such as a murder in 2007 of a telephone company owner, Alejandro Laprade, that threatened to blow the whistle on the Hondutel grey traffic scheme, from which the Rosenthal family prospered, but which in turn focused the attention of the country on out-of-control Zelaya corruption and led to his downfall. <br> Otto Reich is a former U.S. Ambassador to Venezuela, Assistant Secretary of State for Western Hemisphere Affairs and Senior Staff member of the National Security Council. He heads his own international government relations firm in Washington, DC. 
