230
'apples
Arena Digest: Does Tiller change the debate?
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2009/06/arena-digest-does-tiller-change-the-debate-023303
2009-06-04
POLITICO Staff
Does the Tiller murder change the abortion debate? POLITICO's Arena contributors give their two cents. <br> Theda Skocpol, professor, Harvard University: <br> “It certainly should. ‘Debate’ is not what has been going on. Systematic, sustained harassment of clinic professionals and demonization of doctors have been the modus operandi of the extreme anti-abortion groups, egged on by Fox News, etc. This is the sort of extreme harassment and verbal demonization that always precedes actual violence, official or quasi-tolerated, in every historical situation from Nazism to ethnic cleansing. Tiller’s assassin was no ‘lone wolf.’ He was thoroughly embedded in an extremist terrorist-harassment network.” <br> Steve Steckler, chairman and founder, Infrastructure Management Group: <br> “Those opposing abortion from the moral high ground, such as the Catholic Church and an increasing number of secular humanists, have been admirably consistent in their defense of life in all circumstances. This consistency should provide enough solace of conscience for pro-lifers and enough security for abortion rights supporters to continue the debate uncowed, but, in the meantime, both sides should be working together to make abortion and the unwanted pregnancies that tempt it much rarer. That was the promise of President Obama’s Notre Dame speech, one for which he should be held accountable over the next three years.” <br> Grover Norquist, president, Americans for Tax Reform: <br> “No. The good news for the body politic is that all the major right-to-life groups and individual leaders strongly condemned the murder. That is important and healthy.” <br> Rosabeth Moss Kanter, professor, Harvard Business School: “The appalling murder of Dr. Tiller is one more sign that rigid right-wing rhetoric fosters hate and intolerance while appearing to justify extremism by seeing no exceptions, no personal circumstances, no private decisions, no nuances. Certainly, this was an act of one individual with one gun performing one homicide. But which political persuasion finds gun rights more important than a woman’s right to choose? Right-wing fundamentalism is not pro-anything. It is anti-this and anti-that.” <br> Jeffrey Stewart, professor, University of California, Santa Barbara: <br> “No, unfortunately, the murder of Dr. Tiller won’t change the dynamics of the abortion debate. And it won’t change the ease of access to firearms or the propensity to use them to kill — both of which set America apart from all other modern, post-industrial nations in the world. The reality is that killing is as American as apple pie. It is a tragic irony of the ‘right-to-life’ movement that ease of access to abortions has radically declined in America and yet the ease of access to firearms that kill far more people in America remains undiminished. Is not freedom from getting shot in church a ‘right to life’? <br> “Which leads to another question: Why don’t the people who stoke these fires of mental terrorism ever come out and apologize to the families of the loved ones who are robbed of their family members when the extremists take such action? Bill O’Reilly is forever lecturing America on morality. Where is his? There is a profound disingenuousness about always saying that the First Amendment does not give one the right to yell, ‘Fire!’ in a crowded theater and then suddenly embracing as freedom of expression the right to point the media gun at someone with whom one disagrees. Especially when one knows that there is a history of people being killed after such ‘outings.’” 
