194
'apples
Shooting a patent straw man
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2012/04/shooting-a-patent-straw-man-075674
2012-04-27
Bernard J. “Barney” Cassidy
Microsoft and Facebook, as the news headlines proclaim, just signed a $550 million patent pact to hem in Google. This follows Microsoft’s recent $1.1-billion purchase of AOL patents and spotlights the high-stakes patent war among the tech titans to gain legal leverage in the fight for dominance in smartphone and Internet markets. <br> Yet to read the editorials — including a much-cited op-ed by Andy Kessler in the April 12 Wall Street Journal — or judge from recent Capitol Hill actions, you would think the tech giants are acquiring patents for an entirely different reason. Never mind that these multinationals have already launched a circular firing squad of patent suits against each other — more than a hundred filed so far. The real reason for all this smartphone litigiousness, commentators like Kessler insist, are “patent trolls [who] don’t sell products or services [and] are a pain in the side of those who do.” <br> Which is rather like claiming that World War I was caused by a minor Austrian archduke named Ferdinand rather than the great power rivalries of the major European nations. <br> These analysts urge us to look back to the wisdom of the Founders and, as Kessler puts it, “require patent holders to actually make or sell products before citing infringement.” <br> What? It was the Founders who created the world’s first patent system in which small innovators who did not have the capital or the business model to commercialize their own inventions could still profit from invention by licensing or selling their patents to enterprises that did. <br> The Founders granted patent rights to “non-practicing entities” — in those days mostly poor but technically-inventive farmers, workers and artisans — because they hoped to spark a surge of innovation activity among the citizens of our young and underdeveloped nation. <br> Their gamble paid off. By 1865, the U.S. per capita patenting rate was triple that of Britain’s, and America had surged past Britain to become the leader of the Industrial Revolution. Patent assignment records from the 19th century show that more than two-thirds of the 160 “great inventors” of the Industrial Revolution — including Thomas Edison — were “non-practicing entities,” who licensed many of their patents to others rather than commercialize these themselves. 
