191
'apples
A sharp contrast on gays, bullying
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2012/05/obama-romney-a-sharp-contrast-on-gays-bullying-076580
2012-05-21
Rachel Sklar
There is a yin and a yang to two recent cultural politics stories: first, President Barack Obama endorsing same-sex marriage, and then Mitt Romney being outed as an old-fashioned high school bully. The timing was uncanny, juxtaposing an Obama depicted as extending hope and promise to gays and lesbians with a Romney whose bullying past was tinged with homophobia. <br> Obama’s reflective “evolution” provided a sharp contrast with Romney’s teenage “pranks” — yet the common thread between these two stories isn’t only gay rights. It’s about two issues that have evolved — to borrow a phrase — in the public sphere. And about how Romney hasn’t. <br> Bullying is as American as, if not apple pie then at least as the many movies that have immortalized it. (You show me an ’80s teen comedy, I’ll show you a movie with a preppy, blond popped-collar bully). Whether they’re taking lunch money from George McFly, sweeping Ralph Macchio’s leg, outlawing sweatpants on Monday or being mega-bitches just because they can be, these bullies are clearly the villains. <br> They’re also drawn from a common experience. Movie bullying may be cartoonish, but it clearly evokes real-life bullying. And real-life bullying has gotten a great deal of attention lately — what with The Trevor Project, It Gets Better, the Anti-Bullying Bill of Rights and the powerful documentary “ Bully.” <br> There are 13 million kids bullied in this country every year, some, tragically, to the point of suicide. It is to be taken seriously. <br> And yet Romney’s response to The Washington Post story — which detailed how he allegedly led a pack of boys in pinning down another student, described as effeminate and presumed to be gay, to cut off his dyed blond hair, and also how he once led a near-blind teacher smack into a door — was rather unserious. <br> “I participated in a lot of hijinks and pranks in high school,” Romney said to Fox News radio host Brian Kilmeade. “Some may have gone too far and for that I apologize.” <br> Romney said he did not recall the incidents described. “Back in high school,” he explained, “I just did some dumb things, and if anybody was hurt by that or offended by it, obviously I apologize.” <br> As apologies go, it was pretty weak — both minimizing the alleged offense (hijinks/pranks) and the magnitude of its effect (“if anybody was hurt or offended,” “some might have gone too far”). <br> But the behavior that matters isn’t what might have transpired in 1965. It’s what Romney says and does in 2012, when he is running for president, that counts. <br> Many have pointed out that this was a missed opportunity for Romney to display empathy. (See David Letterman’s “Other Hilarious Pranks Pulled By Mitt Romney”: “As a sophomore in high school, Mitt Romney cut the brake lines of his lab partner Ted’s car.” Ouch.) But even more, it was a missed opportunity for Romney to display modernity. <br> The New York Times noted the gulf between then and now: “Even at his otherwise-strict school, pranks were tolerated with boys-will-be-boys indulgence, and the term ‘bullying’ was decades away from being a subject for assemblies and school psychologists.” 
