71
'apples
Chuck Schumer, Joe Biden and the Supreme Court: In this election year, hypocrisy is on full display
Foxnews
http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2016/02/25/chuck-schumer-joe-biden-and-supreme-court-in-this-election-year-hypocrisy-is-on-full-display.html
2016-02-25
Cal Thomas
Everyone knows the meaning of the word “hypocrite” and no one can claim absolute constancy when it comes to living a life consistent with one’s stated values. But in this election year, hypocrisy is on full display. It is now being practiced with neither shame nor irony by leading Democrats, who once forcefully argued positions they have now abandoned. <br> That seems to fit Sen. Charles Schumer (D-NY) and Vice President Joe Biden (hypocrite-Washington), who now take positions opposite ones they previously took with apparent conviction when it comes to hearings and votes on a president’s nominees to the Supreme Court. <br> That speech came 543 days before the 2008 election. Schumer now says the Senate should hold hearings and that the full Senate should be allowed to vote on President Obama’s forthcoming nominee to replace the late Justice Antonin Scalia, though fewer than 300 days remain before this year’s election. Schumer brushes off charges of hypocrisy, saying any comparison of his position then and his polar opposite position now is “apples and oranges.” <br> Vice President Biden is also caught in a hypocritical trap of his own making. In 1992, while serving as chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, Biden said that in the event a vacancy on the Supreme Court should occur during a year when President George H.W. Bush was seeking a second term, Bush should “not name a nominee until after the November election is completed.” Biden also took the exact position then that the current chairman of the committee, Sen. Charles Grassley (R-Iowa), is taking now. In 1992, Biden said his committee “should seriously consider not scheduling confirmation hearings on the nomination until after the political campaign season is over.” <br> Well, yes. <br> This helps explain why so many people hate Washington and why everyone gets my lecture circuit laugh line: “I’m from Washington, D.C., where the only politicians with convictions are in prison.” <br> It is a label that is commonly and increasingly bipartisan.
