158
'apples
Why They Mattered: Harry F. Byrd Jr.
Politico
https://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2013/12/harry-f-byrd-jr-obituary-101429
2013-12-22
Don Baker
When former U.S. Sen. Harry F. Byrd Jr. of Virginia died in “Courtfield,” his hilltop mansion in Winchester, Va., last January, a dynasty went with him. <br> Byrd, 98, was a charter member of the FFVs (First Families of Virginia), which in his case was a clan dating back to William Byrd II, who was born in Virginia in 1674, accumulated 180,000 acres and founded the city of Richmond. The senator’s ancestors traced their lineage to Pocahontas and Chief Justice John Marshall, as well as a host of famous Byrds, among them Rear Admiral Richard Evelyn Byrd Sr., the North Pole explorer. (The Virginia Byrds were not related to the late West Virginia Sen. Robert Byrd.) <br> In the 20 th century the Byrd brand became best known as conservative segregationists who practically invented Virginia’s infamous Massive Resistance to school integration. Byrd’s father and beneficiary, Harry Flood Byrd Sr., was its architect, and “Young Harry,” by which junior was known much of his life, did his part as a member of the Virginia state Senate in the 1950s, helping pass a group of laws, later ruled unconstitutional, designed to deprive African-Americans of full citizenship. <br> After holding his father’s seat in the state Senate for 18 years, “Young Harry” graduated to the U.S. Senate seat in 1965 when his father retired in ill health. Then-Gov. Albertis Harrison Jr., a loyal lieutenant in the Byrd Organization—don’t call it a “machine” like those in New York and Chicago—appointed him to fill the vacancy. <br> Byrd went on to win a special election and then two full terms. The second time Republicans didn’t bother to field a nominee, and he easily defeated a liberal Democrat, becoming the first independent to be elected and reelected to a Senate seat. <br> The Byrds were archetypal Southern Democrats, more like today’s Southern Republicans—conservative on social and fiscal issues. Senator Byrd Jr. quit the Democratic Party in 1970, refusing to sign a loyalty oath as the party was swinging left. It proved to be a wise political decision as a changing, growing Virginia electorate, including large numbers of blacks, was moderating its views, just as Byrd announced in 1972 that he would run as an independent. <br> Although he voted overwhelmingly with the Republicans, Byrd still caucused with the Democrats, who rewarded him by retaining his seniority on two major committees, Armed Services and Finance. Even so, he took little advantage of his power, seldom attending committee hearings. But he was diligent in voting on the floor, casting 6,270 votes—96 percent of roll calls—by his retirement in 1982. <br> He was so opposed to federal spending, except for the military, that, like his father, he authored virtually no legislation during his time in Washington. He once explained, “We have too many bills, too much legislation that we just don’t need.” He practiced what he preached, refusing some pay raises and returning funds for his office to the Treasury. One of his few forays into legislating, requiring a balanced federal budget, was adopted but never implemented. Because of their single-mindedness about federal spending, both father and son were largely ignored by colleagues on both sides of the aisle during the half-century they served in Washington. 
