228
'apples
Health reforms pre-existing condition - POLITICO
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2009/10/health-reforms-pre-existing-condition-028342
2009-10-16
Bob Franken
The Democrats have just fired their biggest guns at the insurance industry, but unfortunately they are shooting very loud blanks. <br> That’s what they did Wednesday, when the Senate Judiciary Committee held a hearing titled Prohibiting Price Fixing and Other Anticompetitive Conduct in the Health Insurance Industry. <br> There is no way in the world that health insurance companies are going to allow Congress to repeal the McCarran-Ferguson Act, which gives them a pass from federal antitrust enforcement. The insurance industry is the only one, other than Major League Baseball, to enjoy this exemption. <br> But don’t expect the majority in Congress to play ball with those who are serious about getting rid of that exemption, even though the ever-quotable Sen. Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) called it “one of the worst accidents in American history.” <br> It was no accident at all. McCarran-Ferguson has been with us since 1945, when the industry got Washington’s willing lawmakers to reinstate theindustry’s immunities from federal regulation after the Supreme Court had, a year before, overturned the apple cart of special treatment insurers had gotten since right after the Civil War. <br> Because of McCarran-Ferguson, they must be regulated state by state, which is an ineffective patchwork compared with one national set of standards. <br> The result is that the insurance behemoths don’t have to pay attention to the antitrust restrictions that prevent normal companies from colluding andengaging in their other anti-competitive practices. <br> That’s why Americans can’t take their business elsewhere when their health insurer cheats them.There are no real alternatives. When it comes to abusive practices, the companies are allowed to all be in this together. Understandably, they cherish this exemption. Since it has meant they could accumulate limitless wealth, all they have to do is shower a little bit of it into the campaign coffers of this generation’s pliant politicians, and they will keep the advantage that lies at the heart of health care dysfunction in this country. <br> As we have heard ad nauseam, another way to achieve competition would be some variation of a public option.Of course, the industry is dead set against that idea, too, and can be expected to spend whatever it takes to distort the issue. However, there is one hint of its vulnerability. <br> It appears that maybe these insurance guys are not as smart as they think they are. For instance, by putting out their blatantly misleading analyses of pending health reform legislation, they were so shameless with their distortions that they insulted members of Congress, who don’t want to be treated like fools, whether they are or not. <br> So some variation of the public option is back on the table. But forget about repealing McCarran-Ferguson. It won’t happen. The Democrats who threatened that were only being spiteful.But they did a service by bringing it up and displaying how it is that the insurance companies can pretty much do whatever they want to. <br> Bob Franken, a former CNN correspondent, is a syndicated columnist and a frequent guest on MSNBC and other TV news networks. 
