84
'apples
Senate Could Learn From George W. Bush on Immigration Reform
Foxnews
http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2013/06/24/senate-could-learn-from-george-w-bush-on-immigration-reform.html
2013-06-24
Alfredo Gutierrez
Last week senators announced an agreement that would double the number of boots on the ground, greatly expand drone surveillance and build hundreds more miles of border fences, barriers and walls in an effort to generate consensus on immigration reform. This is precisely the wrong approach. I suppose this shouldn’t be too much of a surprise given that Congress, with their focus on security and refusal to work collaboratively with Mexico, got us into this mess in the first place. <br> If we think fences can prevent people from seeking a better life for their families, we are fools who deeply underestimate the human conditions that drive immigration. <br> Farm workers who once followed the migrant stream, picking lettuce, broccoli and carrots and then heading north to pick cherries, apples and peaches and then back across to Texas and the South to pick cotton on their way back to Mexico, now no longer crossed the border back to their families. Congress, quite simply, created crisis. <br> The last time that Washington dealt seriously with immigration was in 2001. At that time, George W. Bush, the last president to seriously attempt to reverse the blunders that created the immigration crisis, was recently elected. He moved quickly to deal with the issue of immigration. In a refreshing twist, his approach was to work collaboratively with Mexico’s President, Vicente Fox. The two former governors shared a ranching background, an affinity for Stetson hats and cowboy boots and understanding that, without real reform, the immigration situation would only worsen. The two worked secretly with a group of lawyers, diplomats and academics to create a plan that began with a path to green cards, would remove Mexico and Canada from the global quota system and revive a guest worker program that would have allowed as many as 300,000 Mexicans to work in the United States and then return home. <br> And now, the Senate has doubled down on this misguided path. As a longtime Senator and commentator for a daily Spanish-language talk show in Arizona, I saw a steady stream of crossers that were migrating between Mexico and the United States. They brought in found IDs or wallets with family photos in the hopes of connecting searching families with a small bit of information about a lost loved one or begged me to announce the last known location of their sons or daughters so that listeners with information could call. My experience with those distraught family members reinforces an undeniable truth: The current focus on border security defies common sense. If we think fences can prevent people from seeking a better life for their families, we are fools who deeply underestimate the human conditions that drive immigration. Quotas didn’t work 40 years ago, and they won’t work now. Fences weren’t a solution 20 years ago, and they aren’t one now. <br> Alfredo Gutierrez is a progressive immigration advocate who spent 14 years in the Arizona Senate. He recently released a memoir, "To Sin Against Hope: How America Has Failed Its Immigrants; A Personal History."
