186
'apples
Caymans are just tip of the iceberg
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2012/08/caymans-are-just-tip-of-the-iceberg-079507
2012-08-09
Sally Painter
The placid political waters of the Cayman Islands were roiled recently by an unprecedented announcement. Premier McKenna Bush instituted an expatriate-only payroll tax of 10 percent — immediately sparking an outcry among the wealthy people and international corporations that have built the Caymans’ massive financial sector on the premise of a tax-free paradise. More than 9,000 mutual funds, 260 banks and 80,000 companies are now based on an island of roughly 54,000 people. <br> While this move is rooted in the island’s budget wrangling with London, it comes just as such “offshore financial centers” are under increasing scrutiny for their role in an international financial system tainted by suspicion and scandal. From tax dodging to money laundering, from shady derivatives trading to the manipulation of the LIBOR rate, the lack of transparency and effective regulation in world finance has led to serious problems. <br> In U.S. politics, places like the Cayman Islands have emerged as rhetorical weapons for campaign attacks on the evils of corporate tax evasion and outsourcing. President Barack Obama has long made clamping down on offshore tax havens a priority, regularly citing the issue in the 2008 race and, once elected, promoting aggressive tax code changes to reduce U.S. companies’ ability to shelter profits from taxes by keeping them overseas. <br> Now, of course, the Obama campaign has pounded former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney for his Cayman Island accounts, using them to attack what many see as a culture of unscrupulous selfishness among a global elite. Combined with persistent questions about Romney’s refusal to release his tax returns, the implied charges of shady financial dealings could add up to a potent character weakness for his campaign. <br> However, since the Cayman’s new tax only targets wages, it would leave the passive investments and corporate profits of the super-rich, like Romney, untouched. And this is really where the action is. Between $21 billion and $32 trillion is hidden offshore each year, the watchdog group Tax Justice Network estimates, meaning nearly $200 billion of lost government taxes annually. <br> These lost revenues, however, are just the tip of the iceberg of an international financial system that has grown so sprawling, complex and secretive that regulators face a near-impossible task. That’s the way many financial players – legitimate and otherwise – want it. <br> Not only do criminal enterprises benefit from no-questions-asked banking. But international corporations take advantage of it to streamline global operations with a minimum of red tape. These multinationals lobby against greater regulation — arguing that these liberties grease the wheels of international trade and promote growth. <br> They may have a point – but it has a dark side. As tax evasion and other white-collar crimes sap government revenue, this lack of transparency also facilitates money laundering, terrorist financing and political corruption. <br> Indeed, money laundering is the linchpin of the criminal universe. Without it, the billions generated by drug sales, human trafficking and the like would be trapped in the unwieldy form of cash. But once it enters the global financial system – whether through the fabricated profits of shell companies or unmonitored deposits – it becomes infinitely more useful. It can be used to pay suppliers, manage international criminal supply chains, fund preferred politicians and make legal investments in legitimate activities — that then get funneled back into the original criminal enterprise. 
