85
'apples
Geraldo Rivera: Ariel Castro, The Yauco Monster
Foxnews
http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2013/05/10/geraldo-rivera-ariel-castro-yauco-monster.html
2013-05-10
Geraldo Rivera
The initial reports of the crime were hideous and unbelievable, three teenage sex slaves held shackled and imprisoned apparently by three grubby, seedy, horribly abusive middle-aged brothers. The kidnapping and decade-long captivity of those young women in a boarded-up hell house in Cleveland is bad enough. How could they rob those girls of their freedom, their youth and this substantial hunk of their lives? <br> Every time Castros picture is shown, ugly and disheveled, I cringe. His admitted cruelty will fuel the negative stereotypes and clichs about Latinos, and for a time even add fuel to efforts to derail progress we have made on many important issues, including immigration. <br> As the wretched extent of Cleveland’s notorious crime becomes known, there will be necessary scrutiny of the heartless, wicked, perpetrator. And from my point of view, making Ariel Castro’s terrible crimes even harder to bear is the fact that he is Puerto Rican. <br> His reasoning was simple. During that period a half century ago, many Puerto Ricans were recent arrivals having a hard time fitting in. Yes, they were American citizens, but they were still strangers in a strange land, often with English-language difficulties, poverty and worse. And my dad’s thinking was that every time one from our community did wrong, it added another hurdle we had to jump to become “real” Americans, accepted as equals by our neighbors. <br> Every time Castro’s picture is shown, ugly and disheveled, I cringe. His admitted cruelty will fuel the negative stereotypes and clichs about Latinos, and for a time even add fuel to efforts to derail progress we have made on many important issues, including immigration. Thursday morning on my nationally syndicated radio show I started getting the calls. Some guy named Mark from the Florida Panhandle calling to taunt me, “Well, how about all those hard-working immigrants you’re always talking about now? Ha ha.” <br> I hope he is right. I was further reassured by Cleveland’s City Prosecutor Victor Perez, who said during Castro's arraignment that he too was born in Puerto Rico. Perez added, “I want everyone to know that the acts of the defendant are not a reflection of the Puerto Rican community here or in Puerto Rico.”
