209
'apples
Walkers win a gift for Dems? Hardly
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2011/03/walkers-win-a-gift-for-dems-hardly-051280
2011-03-15
Joe Scarborough
I love The New York Times. I read it every day, and it’s been my paper of choice since I was a teenager. Much of what I say on “Morning Joe” is shaped by its newsroom of reporters, who are still without peer in the world of journalism. <br> Does their coverage slant a bit left? As I say to my friends at the Times, I love the paper so much I buy two copies every day. One to read and one to burn after reading. But as I am watching the editorial section go up in flames, I remind myself that the Times does what all great papers do; it reflects the attitudes of the city it serves. And because I am an unabashed fan of New York and its people, I spend little time railing against the paper’s point of view. <br> That is easier these days, because the great paper’s focus over the past decade has been to become a national paper that attracts readers in Manhattan, Kan., as well as those in the Big Apple. The front page of the Times has also become a bit more agnostic politically. To be sure, its coverage of the 2008 campaign was embarrassing at times, with John and Cindy McCain taking undue hits and Barack Obama receiving glowing praise. <br> But for the most part, the Times has become more balanced. If you don’t believe me, look for bias in the work of reporters like Jeff Zeleny, Mark Leibovich and David Sanger. Good luck finding examples of a leftward lean. I read the paper as closely as anyone and find these reporters beyond reproach. Most there are. <br> That is not to say there aren’t times when the Gray Lady backslides and begins behaving like it did during the debacle created by its coverage of the 2003 Masters and the controversy over Augusta National’s lack of female members. While its current coverage of the Wisconsin showdown has not reached Howell Raines-like proportions, last week’s coverage of Gov. Scott Walker’s legislative win over public unions has gotten off to an embarrassing start. <br> If the Times is your only source of news, you could be forgiven for believing that Walker has single-handedly doomed the Republican Party while ensuring President Obama’s reelection next year. This is a curious conclusion to reach considering that Walker’s GOP has stripped public unions in his state of many collective-bargaining rights while limiting their ability to collect mandatory dues from workers. <br> How Democrats are the beneficiaries of these draconian measures must remain a mystery to readers not employed by left-wing cable news shows or progressive bloggers. <br> The political reality is that Walker’s victory last week was a crushing blow for labor’s most valuable players: government workers. The fact that those actions were taken in a state where public unions first came into existence makes labor’s loss all the more distressing. And since public workers unions were the biggest contributors to the 2010 campaign — giving more than $200 million to Democratic candidates — Walker’s efforts to break Wisconsin’s public unions will ultimately be felt in all 50 states. <br> But don’t try telling that to The New York Times. <br> On Friday, the Times tried to snatch victory from the jaws of defeat by declaring that Walker’s win was actually a “gift” for Democrats. <br> Another Friday headline in the Times declared the historic union loss was a huge win for Obama. The headline “Walker Hands a Victory to Obama?” was laughable on its face considering that outside Wall Street, public unions were the president’s most loyal contributors in 2008. <br> The next day, the Times told us that labor’s loss in Wisconsin was a “galvanizing” event that would help Democrats roll up huge victories in next year’s elections. 
