155
'apples
U.S. needs a chief operating officer
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2014/02/joe-scarborough-america-needs-a-chief-operating-officer-103121
2014-02-04
Joe Scarborough
As presidential primary debates go, the January 2008 MSNBC showdown between Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton and John Edwards was standard fare: sharp exchanges on nuclear policy, a call for cleaner campaigns and the inevitable question about the candidates' own strengths and weaknesses. <br> This is the part of the debate where the moderator asks each candidate to describe their best and worst traits. There are many right answers on the subject of one's strengths but only one correct answer to the weakness question. “Well, Tim, gosh darn it, it embarrasses me to admit here in front of a crowded room like this that sometimes I’m impatient and probably obsess a little too much about getting things just right! <br> Clinton listed her strength as a “passionate commitment to this country and what it stands for.” Her weakness? “I am impatient.” She said that she gets concerned sometimes about “pushing further and faster than perhaps people are ready to go.” <br> Obama told viewers that his greatest strength was an ability “to bring people together from different perspectives to recognize what they have in common and to move people in a different direction. Obama surprised many long-time debate watchers when addressing his greatest weakness – by telling the truth. <br> The then-Illinois senator walked himself into this unique position because of an editorial board interview with the Reno Gazette-Journal the day before where he said, “I don’t think there is anybody in this race who can inspire the American people better than I can. And I don’t think there is anybody in this race who can bridge differences ... better than I can. But I’m not an operating officer. Some in this debate around experience seem to think the job of the president is to go in and run some bureaucracy. Well, that’s not my job. My job is to set a vision of ‘here’s where the bureaucracy needs to go.’” <br> The late, great Tim Russert asked the right question as usual and pushed Obama to elaborate on his statement – “Do the American people want someone in the Oval Office who is an operating officer?” <br> “Well, I think what I was describing was how I view the presidency. Now, being president is not making sure that schedules are being run properly or the paperwork is being shuffled effectively, Obama answered. It involves having a vision for where the country needs to go. It involves having the capacity to bring together the best people and being able to spark the kind of debate about how we're going to solve health care; how we're going to solve energy; how we are going to deliver good jobs and good wages ... and then being able to mobilize and inspire the American people to get behind that agenda for change. <br> Six years later, Washington and the world has learned that simply having a vision for the future is worthless if there is not a president in the White House who knows how to run the place like that operating officer Candidate Obama had so little use for in 2008. <br> The idea that a county store, let alone the most powerful country in the world, can survive on little more than a hope for change and a gauzy vision of the future is preposterous. The fact that Republicans were such a dysfunctional party that they lost two successive elections to such a flimsy promise is depressing. What is even more depressing is the fact that six years in, the president still has no idea how to become that operating officer who can turn grand visions into concrete actions. <br> The greatest American visionary over the past quarter century figured out early in his business career that ideas that could not be implemented would never change the world. <br> Steve Jobs once spoke of the very serious disease that overtook Apple when John Scully ran the company. Jobs called it the disease of thinking that a really great idea is 90% of the work. And if you just tell all these other people 'here’s this great idea,' then, of course, they can go off and make it happen. <br> The Apple founder explained that such a mindset ignores the tremendous amount of craftsmanship that takes place between the emergence of a great idea and the creation of a great product. And as you evolve that great idea, it changes and grows. It never comes out like it starts because you learn a lot more as you get into the subtleties of it. And you also find there are tremendous tradeoffs that you have to make. There are just certain things you can’t make electrons do. There are certain things you can’t make plastic do. Or glass do. Or factories do. Or robots do. <br> There are also certain things you can't make Washington do. But Obama has yet to figure out how to make those tremendous tradeoffs that Jobs said all great leaders have to make. As one Obama aide told me, the greatest frustration in working for the man is the fact that he comes up with a position and then waits for Washington to come to him. He still hasn't figured out that it just doesn't work that way. 
