217
'apples
Taking on big food
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2010/08/taking-on-big-food-041400
2010-08-24
Bill Bishop
Buses are due to head out Thursday from Nebraska, Kansas and the Dakotas, from Gillette, Wyo., and Billings, Mont., all hauling cattlemen to Fort Collins, Colo., where they set to testify in favor of the Obama administration’s efforts to reshape the business of food. <br> Bill Bullard of R-CALF, a nationwide advocacy group of cattle producers, is talking about having 25,000 people there Friday to testify before Attorney General Eric Holder and Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack about antitrust violations in the meat business. <br> Bullard probably won’t get 25,000 people to Fort Collins. It’s inconvenient and hot, and Aug. 27 is a Friday at the start of football season. But there are likely to be a few thousand square staters there in what is one of the more improbable coalitions of the politically Balkanized U.S. countryside. <br> Lizard-booted ranchers and good old boys with John Deere gimme caps are lining up with a labor union and President Barack Obama against meatpacking giants, big farm organizations and a coalition of Republican and Democratic House Agriculture Committee members. Politics on this one is all mixed up. <br> The tangled situation began slightly more than a year ago. Justice Department officials came to a meeting of ranchers and farmers in St. Louis to announce a series of hearings on competition in the food business. <br> The Justice antitrust division had just about rusted shut during the Bush administration. In those years, there was a national infatuation with markets. Antitrust enforcement was thought to be so, well, 20th century. <br> By 2008, however, the market was no longer infallible and the new administration was keen to take on monopoly. Food — from Monsanto’s dominance in seeds to Wal-Mart’s growing share of the grocery dollar — looked like a good place to start. <br> That was dandy with ranchers and farmers— who have watched their share of the food dollar shrink steadily for the past 30 years. <br> In 1980, for example, cattle raisers received 63 cents of each dollar spent on a box of cut meat sold in groceries. By 2009, ranchers were getting just 43 cents on that same passel of beef. <br> With just four meatpacking firms controlling 88 percent of the cattle market, ranchers came to the not unreasonable conclusion that business concentration among beef buyers was one reason their share of the meat dollar had shrunk by a third. <br> The Justice and Agriculture departments decided on a two-pronged strategy. <br> First, they would pursue the traditional trust-busting route -— beginning with a series of fact-finding sessions across rural America. Fort Collins is the fourth of five such hearings. <br> Second, USDA published proposed regulations under the Packers and Stockyards Act of 1921, which would give new rights to ranchers, hog raisers and contract chicken growers. The rules make it easier for livestock owners to sue meatpackers for discriminatory pricing. And they give contract chicken growers more power in their dealings with the likes of Tyson Foods. 
