287
bananas'
What Beijing learned from neocons
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2011/01/what-beijing-learned-from-neocons-047766
2011-01-19
Nina Hachigian
President Hu Jintao of China is due in Washington on Wednesday, and both nations are hoping to put an end to recent acrimony. <br> This summit most likely will succeed in changing the tone of the relationship — at least for a time. The two powers may come to cooperate more deeply on North Korea, Iran, trade, climate change and a host of other issues that can only be tackled by the United States and China working together. <br> At base, however, Washington and Beijing have divergent ideas about how a great power should conduct itself in the 21st century. In that battle of ideas, China gets support from an unlikely corner: American neoconservatives. <br> China ducks international responsibility by citing its sovereignty. Neoconservatives unwittingly support that view when they insist the U.S. compromises its own sovereignty if it engages fully with today’s international institutions and abides by international laws. This sends Beijing a dangerous message: Stewardship of the international order is not the business of a great power. <br> In fact, a central object of U.S.-China policy for the past 40 years has been to encourage China to join the international system of norms, rules and institutions that Washington and its allies built after World War II. If Beijing joins these institutions and follows the rules, this logic goes, the U.S. will have little to fear from a strong and successful China. Better to have China in the tent, as the expression goes. <br> Indeed, China has come a long way, joining just about every international institution it could and working well within the system in a number of areas. It is a strong supporter of the nuclear nonproliferation regime, for example, and recently played a constructive role in addressing North Korea and Iran’s nuclear programs. <br> But in other areas — including human rights, global economic imbalances and maritime law — China has consistently rejected international norms and obligations. <br> China justifies its decisions to defy international standards, in part, by citing national sovereignty. Though its actions demonstrate more flexibility, China maintains a fierce rhetorical devotion to an absolutist, 19th-century view of countries as autonomous entities, free of interference from other nations or international institutions. <br> In fact, most Chinese analysts insist the whole concept of the international system and global governance is a Western attempt to undermine Beijing’s sovereignty. Awarding the Nobel Peace Prize to the jailed dissident Liu Xiaobo, one Chinese foreign ministry official asserted, was “a violation of China’s judicial sovereignty.” <br> Similarly, until the Cancun summit on climate change, a major sticking point in negotiations had been China’s refusal to allow international inspectors to verify reductions in its carbon-dioxide emissions. The head of its delegation at the Copenhagen summit had explicitly invoked sovereignty to explain that stance. <br> Chinese leaders also have stated that the value of China’s currency, the renminbi, is a sovereign issue for Beijing. Though other countries, notably the United States, suffer from its artificially low level. 
