163
'apples
Congress must lead on fixing deficit
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2013/11/congress-must-lead-by-dealing-with-the-deficit-099409
2013-11-05
James Richardson
The postcard couple huddled at a kitchen table as they hash out a budget is among the most shopworn of American political clichs, its currency as a debate device soaring to new heights during the recent government shutdown. <br> It was repeated ad nauseam on the floor of the U.S. House and the Sunday political talk circuit, but this apple pie convention, like most political theater, is absolute bunk: No longer are there any kitchen summits of the pocketbook or sacrifice, instead only heavily financed jet skis and matching gastric banding surgeries. <br> The image of the distressed couple, fashioned from a false nostalgia by conservative budget scolds to force legislative action on spending, relies on an outmoded notion of fiscal responsibility. But like white-picket fences, Americans have long abandoned any measure of virtue where money is concerned. <br> We rouse only from our recliners to yell in concert with choleric television personalities lamenting the state of America’s fiscal affairs — “they’re spending us into oblivion!” — even as we dive deeper into debt ourselves. <br> The reason Americans fail to appreciate the severity of the federal debt, having soared beyond a startling $17 trillion at last count, is the same reason we don’t appreciate our own pauper’s descent: Ours is a nation that is fundamentally money-dumb. <br> The math of eliminating the federal deficit is hard; the process harder still. But the obligation of America’s elected leaders to act is a moral imperative, a transcendent challenge made steeper by a debate that values marginalia over material. <br> Take House Speaker John Boehner’s appeal earlier this year that Congress adopt Rep. Paul Ryan’s (R-Wis.) budget in the same way, he said, ordinary Americans spend only what they can afford. “Listen, American families have to balance their budget,” he told conservative radio talker Michael Medved. “They understand you can’t continue to spend money that you don’t have.” <br> Yet it’s increasingly obvious that Americans don’t understand the fundamental underpinnings of budgeting. <br> According to data gathered by the Federal Reserve, the average American household is shouldering in excess of $15,000 in credit card debt. Similarly, a July survey by Gallup found that fewer than one-third of Americans create a monthly budget to track finances, and even fewer have a long-term financial plan. <br> That dynamic should sound familiar. Congress is the ultimate mirror, its members a beastly reflection of the public they serve. Often blustered, mostly paunched and rarely informed, our legislative betters have likewise failed to balance a budget or address the structural long-term debt the nation is already carrying. <br> So you see, it’s not just capricious lawmakers who can’t manage a balanced budget. It’s a national epidemic. The recent 16-day government shutdown and the budget bloat that precipitated it were not symptoms of a broken Congress, then, but the function of a broken electorate. <br> Those lawmakers advocating for budget reform have the right idea, but do the effort a profound disservice by leaning on bogus analogies of personal responsibility in an effort to whip support. <br> Americans want the debt and deficit resolved but don’t want to do it themselves. The proposition is thorny and complicated, and any serious solution means throttling funding for programs that benefit ordinary citizens. The burden is on Congress to lead, not deflect — to make the sacrifices necessary, even if it means sacrificing an election. <br> Voters tell pollsters they believe it imperative that Washington address the federal deficit, while failing to identify a single significant government program for reduced funding. <br> But the public’s lack of resolve where the deficit is concerned is no excuse for congressional leaders resorting to bogus analogies of dimly lit kitchen tables or arguing it’s what Americans want because neither trope is true. <br> Instead, Washington should eliminate the deficit because it’s a right and moral undertaking. <br> James Richardson, a conservative communications strategist, was formerly a spokesman and adviser to the Republican National Committee and to Govs. Haley Barbour and Jon Huntsman. 
