213
'apples
Will face time prevail over Facebook?
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2011/02/will-face-time-prevail-over-facebook-049004
2011-02-08
Joe Scarborough
Because of my crazy schedule, I haven’t seen a movie in months. This is despite the fact that since the beginning of the year, I’ve tried to make time to watch “The King’s Speech,” “True Grit” and “The Social Network.” <br> This weekend, my life finally slowed down enough for my wife and me to turn on Apple TV and download the film about Facebook. <br> I was excited to escape into a movie that friends and family have praised as one of the best of the year. Critics seemed to agree that Aaron Sorkin’s take on Facebook’s founding is a masterpiece. I received further proof of the film’s greatness last month at the Golden Globes, hosted by Ricky Gervais. “The Social Network” took home more trophies that night than any other film. Expect a similar scene later this month at the Oscars; “The Social Network” has been nominated for eight Academy Awards, including Best Picture. <br> Rolling Stone even called “The Social Network” the best movie of the year and a film that has defined a generation. <br> Not bad for a motion picture that left me wondering why I didn’t download “True Grit” instead. <br> Mark Zuckerberg’s story is no cinematic joy ride but a grim tale of a man and his generation lost in cyberspace, where someone can be everyone’s friend and nobody’s friend and where computers offer a cold substitute to human contact. The world in the film is a place where instant intimacy has replaced deep relationships, where poking has replaced long talks on the phone and where handwritten notes have been thrown out in favor of a status update. <br> Facebook is cynically feeding the narcissistic appetites of a self-consumed culture that is populated by teenage vulgarians, desperate housewives and bored men. <br> Americans are now simultaneously all places at once and nowhere all the time. This Facebook world leaves millions distracted at work, distracted at home, distracted at play and distracted around their families — even when sitting down for dinner. <br> Facebook is now the perfect complement to the text-obsessed parent who misses most of his child’s soccer game while working the iPhone. It provides millions of parents the chance to continue ignoring their children at home, too. <br> Rolling Stone got it right recently when it described “The Social Network” as a movie that illustrates “how technology is winning the battle against actual human contact, creating a nation of narcissists shaping their own reality like a Facebook page. If youth can’t see itself in this movie, it’s just not paying attention.” <br> Maybe it should. Maybe we should all start paying closer attention to who we are becoming as a society. <br> The warning signs are appearing in places like Rutgers University, where this new reality is creating an emotional disconnect that leads to thoughtless cruelty — the kind that allows teenagers like Dharun Ravi and Molly Wei to allegedly stream live video of their roommate, Tyler Clementi, having an intimate encounter in the privacy of his room. That Internet “prank” ended with a gifted young man jumping to his death off the George Washington Bridge. 
