102
'apples
We Don't Need More Inflation, We Need to Put An End to Obama's Job Killing Policies
Foxnews
http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2010/11/16/dont-need-inflation-need-end-obamas-job-killing-policies.html
2010-11-16
John Lott
The current inflation rate of 2 percent is too low. That is at least if you believe Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke. With the economy growing too slowly to bring down unemployment, Mr. Bernanke's solution is to increase inflation.The Federal Reserve last week started printing up $600 billion to buy U.S. Treasury Bonds and another almost $300 billion to buy mortgages. The printing more dollars will reduce the value of the dollar just as doubling the number of apples will reduce the price of apples. <br> With the next election no more than two years away, few politicians other than Reagan have been willing to bear the short-run electoral costs of reducing inflation. Let the next president face the higher unemployment rate from reducing inflation, they seem to say.Besides only artificial short term gains on unemployment, the value of the dollar took a big hit on Mr. Bernanke's announcement. More inflation means that the value of dollar is lower, and foreigners immediately reduced how much they were willing to pay for them. Higher inflation also means that interest rates will rise, lowering bond and stock prices. One cost of higher inflation is the threat that it poses to Americans’ investments.There might be another unstated explanation for increasing inflation -- more inflation will devalue the awful levels of our government debt, including the debt held by foreign countries such as China. If China bought Treasury bonds paying 3 percent interest and we can raise the inflation rate to 4 percent, the U.S. government will effectively make the Chinese pay us 1 percent per year for borrowing our money. <br> John R. Lott, Jr. is a FoxNews.com contributor. He is an economist and author of More Guns, Less Crime.(University of Chicago Press, 2010), the third edition of which was published in May.
