244
'apples
Viral video infecting political landscape
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2007/06/viral-video-infecting-political-landscape-004569
2007-06-20
Andrew Rasiej
For the second time in three months, a voter-generated political video about the presidential race has made it past the million-view mark on YouTube. First came Phil de Vellis' Vote Different mashup of Apple's 1984 ad with an unflattering message about Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-N.Y.). That video took about three weeks to percolate online, hitting around 300,000 views before the mainstream media paid attention and vaulted it skyward. <br> Last week, the I Got a Crush … on Obama video topped a million views in just four days, according to our partners at TubeMogul.com, which tracks online video viewership. It didn't hurt, of course, that Crush features an attractive and scantily clad young woman, as well as an annoyingly catchy and funny song. That was catnip for cable news, which has played Crush over and over. <br> It's understandable why traditional media would mainly pay attention to the most popular online political phenomenon; in the few minutes or pages that they can devote to politics, they don't have the space to cover the horizon. But if you look at only super-popular videos like Vote Different or Crush, you will miss what is really going on with the new political world online. <br> Unlike the political discussion in print or on television, where space is scarce, there are no limits to what or how much can be posted online. Thus a conversation that was once dominated by former New York Times columnist Russell Baker's Great Mentioner (the unnamed Washington wise man who supposedly decided which presidential wannabes had the right timber), and more recently channeled by the Gang of 500 (coined by Mark Halperin, late of ABC's The Note), is now wide open to everyone and anyone. <br> Today, most people tune out paid marketing messages as fast as they can. Big media entities don't fare much better. We're far more likely to trust something a friend or acquaintance shares with us. So if someone posts a video with a statement about the campaign and shares it with 10 friends, who each tell 10 more, those 100 people may be more influenced by that one person than by any other political messenger they may encounter. <br> The same is true of the political blogosphere, where a handful of blogs may appear to have the lion's share of attention but a closer look shows that there are literally tens of thousands of sites that have at least 20 other sites linking to them. The amount of conversation going on in that arena is richer and, by sheer traffic alone, far larger than what you would find if you look at only the top 50 or 100 sites. <br> This is the long tail of online politics, and it is becoming as big in the videosphere as it is in the blogosphere. Chris Anderson of Wired magazine wrote the seminal article (and book by the same title) about this phenomenon, and his ideas as applied to commerce hold just as well for politics. In the world of bricks and mortar, where shelf space is scarce, retailers by necessity stock mainly best-sellers (the head of the long tail). But an online retailer like Amazon or Netflix can sell millions of titles, and the cumulative sales of all those little, unknown books or movies can be quite substantial. 
