184
'apples
Normalize trade with Russia
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2012/09/normalize-trade-with-russia-081045
2012-09-11
Charlene Barshefsky
When Congress left for its August recess, it neglected to act on a bill that could help support the U.S. economy and American jobs. Granting permanent normal trade relations to Russia would do just that — and has broad bipartisan support in the House and Senate. <br> Approving permanent normal trade relations (PNTR), coupled with graduating Russia from the Cold War-era Jackson-Vanik amendment, is necessary if the U.S. is to get all the economic benefits of Russia’s membership in the World Trade Organization. Russia formally joined the WTO on Aug. 22, following 18 years of negotiations — in which we each engaged while serving as U.S. trade representative. <br> This landmark achievement finally brings the world’s ninth-largest economy into the community of nations that have agreed to abide by international trade rules and procedures. In addition to lowering many tariffs, the Russians have agreed to comply with international standards on intellectual property protection and to abide by the WTO’s rules and dispute-settlement procedures, as well as many other market-opening provisions. <br> Until Congress approves PNTR, however, and graduates Russia from Jackson-Vanik, the U.S. cannot claim all the benefits of having Russia take on the obligations that come with WTO membership. Meanwhile, the other 150-plus WTO countries, including our biggest competitors, will most likely press their advantage in the Russian market to land contracts and win new opportunities for their exporters — at the expense of U.S. workers, farmers, service providers and manufacturers. <br> The demand for foreign goods and services in Russia is strong and growing. It has an estimated $400 billion import market and is home to roughly 142 million people, about one-fifth belonging to a rapidly growing middle class. <br> The U.S. has “underperformed” in the Russian market. Estimated U.S. exports of goods and services to Russia in 2011 reached $11 billion — making it only our 31st-largest goods export market. <br> There is clear opportunity for improvement — and PNTR is a prerequisite for progress. In fact, with PNTR, it is estimated that U.S. exports could double to $22 billion by 2017, providing U.S. workers, farmers and businesses a significant opportunity to expand their sales to Russia, supporting American jobs and helping to strengthen U.S.-Russia commercial relations. <br> This delay in both the House and the Senate has been particularly disappointing, given that the bill has received wide bipartisan support. The Senate Finance Committee approved it in July by a unanimous vote. Soon after, a House Ways and Means Committee voice vote was near unanimous. <br> With September here, and the pre-election congressional recess looming, the clock is running on a timely approval. We can put the most recent delay behind us — along with its negative impact on U.S. exports to the Russian market — but only if these few weeks do not stretch into several months or more. <br> Such a lengthy gap would create a significant economic disadvantage for the U.S. in the Russian market that could take years to turn around. It wouldn’t affect the Russians. Only U.S. businesses, farmers and workers would get hurt. <br> Quick approval of PNTR is clearly in the national interest. Congress should make it a priority and get it done in September without further delay. <br> Ambassadors Charlene Barshefsky and Susan C. Schwab are former U.S. trade representatives. Barshefsky served in the Clinton administration. Schwab served in the George W. Bush administration. 
