284
bananas'
Is the End of Bananas Near?
Politico
https://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2014/05/5-stats-that-explained-the-world-this-week-107023
2014-05-22
Ian Bremmer
T he right statistic is often worth a thousand words—and sometimes much more than that. These five weekly data points, put together by Ian Bremmer, president and founder of the risk consultancy Eurasia Group, provide a glimpse into global trends, political dangers and international power dynamics. Some are counterintuitive facts. Others are small stats that tell a big story. This week, Bremmer looks at figures from American strategic interests in Nigeria to the end of bananas—and what they mean for everybody else. <br> The end of bananas? <br> Currently, a single type of banana—the Cavendish banana—accounts for about 45 percent of the fruit’s global production. In recent years, a deadly disease has decimated the Cavendish in Asia and Australia and now, it has spread to Mozambique, an important player in the banana industry. The end of bananas could have grave implications around the world. Bananas generate $8 billion annually, and more than 400 million people rely on them as their primary source of calories. In countries like Rwanda and Uganda, average banana consumption is roughly 500 pounds per capita per year; that’s 20 times the figure for Americans. For the United States, the acute threat would come if the disease—incredibly virulent, able to spread from just one clod of infected dirt and usually transported by farm workers—spreads to Latin America, which grows the bananas that Americans consume. <br> ( Popular Science) <br> A turning tide in Iran? <br> Since the Islamic Revolution of 1979, Iranian women have been legally forbidden from leaving their homes without headscarves. But if social media is any indication, opposition to the law might be growing. A new Facebook page entitled “My Stealthy Freedom” invites women to post photos of themselves without their hijabs. The page garnered about 130,000 “likes” in a little over a week, almost all of them coming inside Iran. <br> (CNN, BBC) <br> The big picture behind Boko Haram <br> Beyond the moral reasons and the national security motivation, the United States also has an economic reason for assisting the Nigerian government in rescuing the 276 schoolgirls kidnapped by Boko Haram. Nigeria is Africa’s most populous country by a wide margin. It has sustained GDP growth rates above 6 percent every year since 2003; this year’s growth is projected to be 7.1 percent. Every year, the United States sends the country $5 billion in private investment and $700 million in aid. It’s the fifth largest oil exporter to the United States. And 1.5 million Nigerians live in the United States, sending remittances and maintaining close ties to Nigeria. <br> ( Politico, The Fiscal Times) <br> The $100 billion price tag of cyberattacks <br> In a first-of-its-kind disclosure, the White House recently announced that in 2013, federal agents notified more than 3,000 U.S. companies that their computer systems had been hacked. But that number is just a miniscule fraction of the year’s total number of cyberntrusions perpetrated by both criminal groups and foreign governments—all of which cost U.S. companies and consumers an estimated $100 billionannually. The announcement came after President Obama’s February 2013 executive order to share more information on cyberattacks with the private sector—and before last week’s indictment of five Chinese military hackers. <br> ( The Washington Post) <br> Is Europe out of the woods? <br> In the Eurozone, the group of 18 European states that have adopted the Euro as their currency, it seems the economic pressure is off. Low yields signal that bond markets think the crisis is over. Yields on Irish government bonds have fallen below 3 percent, Portugal’s 10-year bond yield has fallen below 4 percent and Greece has proved able to sell five-year bonds at rates below 5 percent. The IMF has raised its growth forecast for the Eurozone to 1.2 percent—up from 1 percent last year. Even Greece is expected to grow (albeit by just 0.6 percent). March unemployment figures for Germany and Austria were a manageable 5.1 percent and 4.9 percent, respectively. <br> But there are still a lot of alarm bells. Public debt is still at 90 percent of Eurozone GDP. Officials have proposed a plan that would reduce that figure to a target rate of 60 percent … over a couple of decades.And the unemployment figures still tell a tale of two Eurozones—the stable core and the struggling periphery. In March, the Eurozone’s overall unemployment rate was 11.8 percent, but Greece’s was 26.5 percent and Spain’s was 25.3. <br> ( Project Syndicate) 
