208
'apples
Building the new consumer bureau
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2011/03/building-the-new-consumer-bureau-051348
2011-03-16
Elizabeth Warren
Congress is due to hold its first oversight hearing Wednesday about the startup of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, created last year to be the top cop on the beat for consumer financial issues. <br> Oversight is crucial. In fact, the central idea behind this bureau was to increase government accountability by consolidating core consumer financial protection functions that had been scattered across seven federal agencies. Now, one agency will have a principal mission to make the market work for all Americans — and to be accountable while doing it. <br> This is how oversight begins — with a clear purpose and someone who can be held responsible. That’s why I am looking forward to testifying for the first time. <br> The consumer bureau’s mission is to make sure consumers have the information they need — upfront, not buried in fine print — to make the best choices about mortgages, credit cards and other financial products and services. Consumers’ personal responsibility is, of course, critical. But prices and risks must be straightforward, consumers should be able to make apples-to-apples comparisons among two or three products. <br> We have spent substantial time meeting with and listening to ideas and concerns from many different interests — including state attorneys general and banking supervisors, consumer advocates, trade associations and chief executive officers of large financial institutions. The time we have spent with small financial institutions has been particularly valuable. (I wrote about this in an earlier POLITICO Opinion article.) I have also now had more than 60 one-on-one conversations with members of Congress, briefing each on the consumer bureau and listening closely to their concerns. <br> We recently launched our ConsumerFinance.gov website. It is a bare-bones version, five months ahead of schedule. But we wanted to put in plain view as much as possible about how we are building this agency. <br> We have already received hundreds of responses as part of our “open for suggestions” campaign, and we have posted videos from our staff addressing many of the most frequent comments. <br> To build the new consumer bureau, we have begun assembling a team of strong, experienced leaders and other capable staff. Already, we have a diverse group of about 175 from a wide variety of backgrounds — industry, consumer and civil rights groups, military service, government and academia. We have people in their first jobs and people who had retired and decided to return for one more job — and lots in between. 
