183
'apples
Paging Don Draper
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2012/09/paging-don-draper-081751
2012-09-28
Bob Gardner
Every four years we hold these truths to be self-evident: this is the most important presidential election in history, and this is the dirtiest, most negative campaign on record. <br> It may actually be true this time. The ads themselves are not only reaching a new low but, even worse, are pedestrian, Pavlovian and tiresome— devoid of any measure of creativity. We can debate whether these are the most negative ads since TV started, but there is no doubt they are the most predictable, boring, boiler plate ads ever. Plus, they’ve gone from misleading and twisting the truth to blatant lying. It used to be embarrassing to be called out by legitimate fact checkers. Now it’s a badge of honor. <br> As one of the few who has straddled the fence between “Madison Avenue” and political for 30-plus years, I’ve often defended political ads and their makers at major ad industry conferences, much to my detriment at mealtime, since Mad Ave thinks the politicos are a blight on the profession. But now I have to recant. Joe Kennedy once said, “We’re going to sell Jack like soap flakes.” <br> It’s time to bring back the guys who sell soap flakes. <br> It wasn’t always this way. Starting in 1952,Madison Avenue was in charge of presidential ads, but that model died more than two decades ago thanks to the rise of a professional political priesthood, which out smarted the agency people and took control. They convinced candidates that political ads were a breed apart and couldn’t be trusted to Madison Ave — which took months, not days or hours — to produce a spot and whose production cost for a 30-second spot topped most feature films at Sundance. That message resonated, so they began monopolizing House, Senate and gubernatorial races. When their clients won, they’d be grateful and loyal as they rose up the electoral food chain. Ultimately, presidential candidates, too, questioned our value. Now both sides and the super PAC’s may have one or two token Mad Men, but the politicos have all the power. <br> You see the results 24/7 if, God forbid, you live in a battleground state. Regardless of party or candidate, it looks like one person did them all. The same charges and so’s-your-old-man counter charges. The same distorted pictures of the opponent, the same creepy music, the same nasty, sarcastic voice overs (now frequently women), the same typed reinforcement at the bottom of the screen, in case you’re deaf. The same kind of out-of-context candidate clips, and the same newspaper headlines to prove the point. And in case you didn’t get the message the first or second time, you’ll have 50 more opportunities. The irony is that the candidates and pundits are always telling us how smart and discerning voters are. Ha. (However, if you’re lucky enough to own a TV station in these states you’re probably already customizing your new yacht and G-4.) 
