192
'apples
More spectrum = more innovation
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2012/05/more-spectrum-means-more-innovation-076526
2012-05-20
Steve Largent
The U.S. wireless industry plays a vital role in Americans’ lives and in America’s economy. <br> More than 40,000 of the world’s wireless industry experts, policymakers and enthusiasts were in New Orleans recently for International CTIA WIRELESS 2012. A stream of new and cool wireless products and services were unveiled, including announcements by ATT’s Connected House, MasterCard’s PayPass Wallet, HTC’s Droid Incredible 4G and Samsung’s Focus 2. <br> The announcement of these products seems like a beginning but the reality is that product announcements are long in the making. Part of the reason for that is because of the need for spectrum, the fuel for the wireless industry and its “virtuous cycle” of innovation. As long as our members have access to spectrum, the networks are upgraded to be faster and handle more capacity. Then the device manufacturers create new capabilities. Content creators then develop new uses and apps, so consumers can benefit from all of it. But it all starts with spectrum. <br> Some have accused us of “playing a game” when talking about the looming spectrum crisis. That is ridiculous for two simple reasons. <br> First, spectrum is the key element to addressing the “hockey stick” of demand we face in terms of usage, users and use. If there were a more effective solution, which would allow carriers to avoid spending billions of dollars at auction, our carriers would be deploying it. <br> As the Information Technology Innovation Foundation’s senior research fellow, Richard Bennett, explained in a recent blog post, if there were a cheaper solution that would perform in any spectrum bands, “any such company would rule the market for smartphone service in short order. … The reason this hasn’t happened is that it’s simply not possible with the technology we have today. … The communications industry has made steady progress toward improving radio efficiency for a hundred years. … but the constraints are very real.” <br> Second, if the looming spectrum crisis is a “game,” then it’s one that involves a number of other countries around the world. Countries like Germany, France, South Korea, Japan and Canada are bringing an additional 120-400 MHz of spectrum to market for their wireless industries. This disparity is even more stark when you consider that the U.S. has a larger population than any of these other countries and that our wireless users talk more, at lower cost, than their counterparts in Europe and Asia. With more subscribers and more usage, but less spectrum in the pipeline, it’s clear that we need to address this disparity or risk ceding the leadership position we currently enjoy. 
