15
'apples
Actually, Trump has a point (Opinion)
CNN
https://www.cnn.com/2016/08/02/opinions/trump-right-interventions-eland/index.html
2016-08-02
Ivan Eland
The reality is that by injecting themselves into the American presidential campaign by criticizing a candidate in the highly political arena of the Democratic National Convention, the Khan family opened itself up to some pushback from the target of their criticism. <br> So while the Khans themselves first politicized the death of their own son by wading into political waters, Trump should have resisted his usual propensity to go for the jugular and personally attack those who have criticized him politically. <br> And while the way in which Trump launched his counterattack against the Khans can be legitimately criticized, we should not consider it taboo to criticize people who have lost a son or daughter in military action -- especially when those parents are essentially leveraging that death to take a political stance on an unrelated issue. <br> After all, unlike during the Vietnam War period, the United States does not have a conscription law that involuntarily drags young Americans against their will to fight in faraway hellholes. Humayun Khan, the Khans' son, volunteered to serve in a U.S. military that since World War II has spent its time on conducting distant imperial adventures rather than simply defending the country, its people, and its freedoms. <br> Fast forward to today, and the overblown furor over Trump's inartful counterpunch has obscured the candidate's momentous comments about terrorism at the Republican National Convention. Although Trump's anti-terrorism policy needs some work (like repudiating his proposed temporary ban on Muslims entering the country, which he has already watered down), he has been the first major American politician to seemingly reach the impolitic (but true) conclusion that the United States would have less blowback from terrorism if it refrained from trying to meddle in other nations' affairs by a policy of regime change and nation building. <br> ISIS has had to resort to inspiring attacks because they have difficulty reaching the faraway United States, which in any event has fewer unintegrated and radicalized Muslims. In contrast, countries in Europe -- France, Germany, and Belgium -- are a lot closer to Middle Eastern and African zones of conflict and have more directly felt the consequences of U.S.-led military interventions in Iraq and Syria, in which they are also participating. <br> It is, of course, unfortunate that Trump regularly obscures the legitimate issues he raises by using personal attacks that invoke unfavorable stereotypes. But that should not overshadow the fact that sometimes, including in his wariness of foreign intervention, he has a point.
