72
'apples
Dear Congress, closing Gitmo without a better plan to protect us is misguided and dangerous
Foxnews
http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2016/02/23/dear-congress-closing-gitmo-without-better-plan-to-protect-us-is-misguided-and-dangerous.html
2016-02-23
J.D. Gordon
Tuesday, February 23marks another important deadline in the struggle between the White House and Congress over closing the detention facilities at Guantanamo Bay. <br> President Obama spoke forcefully Tuesday morning, declaring that he is “absolutely committed to closing Gitmo.” Anyone who listened to the president cannot doubt his passion for this issue and his commitment. <br> While Guantanamo got off to a rocky start in 2002, today it’s broadly recognized as one of the world’s best run prisons. I know because I’ve been there dozens of times while a Pentagon spokesman. And it’s kept us safe from another 9/11. Closing it without a better plan to protect Americans is misguided and endangers us all. <br> Why? Because transferring Gitmo detainees to the U.S. mainland would be a public safety nightmare. <br> First, because judges could let the detainees go free. Many of the current detainees are held under indefinite detention status since the United States didn’t have battlefield detectives chasing Al Qaeda and Taliban operatives in Afghanistan and Pakistan.That means we can’t convict them in court. Just like we could not we convict 400,000 Nazi prisoners detained here during World War II. Such a suggestion would have been ridiculous. <br> Don’t believe me? Just Google the name Ali Al-Marri. He went from an Illinois-based Al Qaeda sleeper cell agent trained in poisons, to a detainee held at the Navy’s Charleston Brig, to a free man in Qatar. <br> Second, sending Gitmo detainees to the U.S. mainland would only change the zip code, while putting local communities in places like Colorado, Kansas and South Carolina at elevated risk for violent protests at best, terrorist attacks at worst. Think of a hybrid blend of Ferguson, Baltimore, Chattanooga and San Bernardino. <br> In addition to fighting off Team Obama from just down Pennsylvania Avenue, Congress also must engage the American people on why Gitmo should remain open for business. <br> But we need many more to follow their lead. As they’ll tell you, it’s not easy to block an administration that picked the closure of Gitmo as Priority No. 1, since Day One. And this isn’t exactly a White House that’s famous for compromise, to boot. <br> And our elected representatives should also help to expose the fuzzy math on actual Gitmo costs. The White House intentionally keeps the per detainee figure high through the excessive number of 2,000 troops who are deployed to Guantanamo for less than 100 detainees. Together with satellite TV, four catered Halal meals a day, Wii-Fits and other amenities available to the detainees, Gitmo costs are the biggest fraud, waste and abuse in modern military history. And yet, how many trillions of dollars did the 9/11 attacks eventually cost? <br> Ideally, our current commander in chief would take the hint from Congress and just give it a rest. But since that doesn’t appear likely, we need our Senators and Representatives to hang tough. Ladies and gentlemen of the Congress we’re counting on it.
