203
'apples
Government handcuffs innovation
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2011/09/government-handcuffs-innovation-063780
2011-09-18
Sen. John Thune
Imagine it’s 1986. Apple has just released a compact computer called the Macintosh Plus. It looks a little like a cinderblock standing on one end, has one megabyte of memory and costs about $2,600. It includes a 9-inch, black-and-white monitor and a built-in disk drive that runs the latest 3.5-inch floppy disk technology. <br> Now imagine that for the next 25 years, Apple releases no other products: no new computer, no iPod, iPhone, iPad, not even a laptop. The company never expands the memory or the monitor size, though it does eventually offer the Mac in other colors and raises the price. <br> Apple would not be one of the largest and most successful businesses in the world if it had ignored the marketplace and stopped coming up with new ideas. <br> Yet while America’s high-tech businesses like IBM, Google, eBay and Amazon have led the world in innovation, the federal government has lagged far behind and shackled the industry with an outdated tax system and policies on trade, patents and Internet regulation that do not suit a fast-changing business environment. Increasingly, it’s become clear that Washington continues to pursue VHS policies in a Blu-ray world. <br> A recent Gallup Poll found that Americans give the computer industry the highest marks among all business sectors, with 72 percent of those surveyed viewing the industry positively. The same survey found the federal government ranked the worst, with only a 17 percent positive rating. <br> America’s tax laws hurt high-tech businesses that employ millions and create jobs. So perhaps nowhere is the need for major policy reform more apparent than in our federal Tax Code. The last major rewrite of it was in the Mac Plus year of 1986, before the Internet and the digital economy. Because of Washington’s failure to keep up with worldwide changes in tax policies, U.S. companies, large and small, lose business and investment to competitors in countries with less punishing tax systems. It also means foreign companies are less likely to locate and create jobs here, choosing instead to keep their operations overseas where they have an advantage. <br> In the decade following the 1986 tax reforms, America’s corporate taxes were about average. But over the past 10 years, other countries looking to boost their economies have been dropping their rates, while Washington embraced the status quo. Since 2000, Germany has dropped its top rate by 22 points and Canada by 13. 
