171
'apples
The GOPs digital opportunity
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2013/06/the-gops-digital-opportunity-092738
2013-06-14
Patrick Ruffini
The Republican Party’s failure to invest in high-level technology and analytics in 2012 has become shorthand code for the party’s woes: this alone wasn’t the reason Mitt Romney lost, but it was emblematic of a party whose leaders had stopped innovating — in policy, messaging, or campaign tactics. <br> Last week, the Republican National Committee hired Andy Barkett, a senior Facebook engineer, as its new chief technology officer. The party is also pressing the reset button on its previously close relationship with Liberty Works, a Silicon Valley-led consortium that was to manage access to the GOP’s voter file. <br> Barkett’s hiring — along with the RNC’s other reform-minded hires — shows that the party may finally be serious about stopping the brain drain of recent years and closing the innovation gap with the Democrats. Yet, while the broad outlines of the RNC’s technology initiatives have been greeted favorably, many of the details are still being defined. Ask most political operatives what those details should be, and you’ll get wildly different responses. <br> One of the key promises made following the release of the party’s 2012 postmortem report was opening up the voter file to outside developers and allied groups to access and contribute back to in real time. This small technical change could go a long way towards solving the data sharing problems campaign staff have griped about for ages. Done right, it could seed a whole new technology ecosystem on the right. <br> ( PHOTOS: Mark Zuckerberg with pols) <br> This is one of the bigger things that the RNC will need to get right in the coming months. <br> Known as an API, this platform would allow outsiders to access and interact with the GOP’s store of voter and microtargeting data. Theoretically, the platform would allow anyone complaining about the quality of the party’s voter file software to build alternatives using the party’s own data. <br> The Apple app store is a metaphor frequently used to describe something like this, but for the GOP, an analogy to the early days of Twitter is more apt. In start-up mode, the service was beset by numerous outages (giving birth to the iconic Fail Whale) and struggled to scale. Yet the one big thing it got right is to give developers virtually unlimited access to its data to build their own applications that in some cases almost entirely replaced the main Twitter experience. The market spawned tools like TweetDeck and mobile apps like Tweetie — both of which were later bought up by Twitter — that grew in popularity. By allowing others to innovate in creating new ways to access the service, Twitter was able to focus on improving its core platform. <br> In similar fashion, innovation on the Democratic side of the aisle didn’t first come with an official party imprimatur. “The VAN” — the party’s revered voter file software — initially started out as a rebellion by state parties dissatisfied with the slow movement and buggy software of the national party. Once a clear majority of state parties had coalesced around VAN, the DNC adopted it as its own. <br> ( PHOTOS: Politicians and cellphones) <br> A clear lesson emerges time and again when it comes to technology: no matter how smart and well-intentioned your leadership is, innovation still mostly comes from the bottom up. The party’s job is to allow for this emergent innovation to flourish, and borrow the best of it. A truly open Republican approach to technology could create such a dynamic. <br> To succeed, the GOP’s platform must be open to all Republicans and conservatives and not closed off to all but a handful of select vendors. This must be a conscious policy decision made with an eye towards enticing new entrants into the marketplace, even if that means disrupting the existing consultant class. <br> A common gripe in GOP circles is that data isn’t shared across campaigns and election cycles. But in reality, there is no easy way to do this, and the RNC’s nominal sharing requirements have proven all too easy to dodge. Data sharing today (largely) consists of people pushing and pulling CSV files to the party’s FTP servers, often at the end of election cycles, when the data’s value diminishes markedly. This is not a viable solution moving forward. 
