233
'apples
We has power over me
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2009/02/we-has-power-over-me-018415
2009-02-05
Andrew Rasiej
Lately we’ve been hearing a lot about members of Congress who are Twittering, and the creation of YouTube portals for the House and Senate mark a further embrace of the new media. <br> While it’s good to see so many incumbents getting on the Internet wagon, in many cases politicians are starting to use these technologies without really understanding their value. They just don’t want to be perceived as “out of touch” or “uncool,” particularly to younger potential supporters. But very few national political actors really get how their world is radically changing and how they should adapt. <br> The success of Barack Obama’s campaign has ended once and for all the argument about whether the Internet matters in politics. All future campaigns will study and try to emulate the strategies and techniques his team employed in raising money, raising awareness and building a grass-roots network of supporters and activists. But as much as it can be argued that Obama achieved the holy grail of all online politics — that is, converting online enthusiasm into votes — there remains one fundamental reason he was successful that will not be so easy for other politicians to copy. <br> The big shift is the rising importance of the word “we” in politics. Time magazine was wrong when it named “you” as its “Person of the Year” in 2006. What is fundamentally different about the times we are living in is how easy it has become for networks of like-minded people to form around every issue under the sun. As much as one may marvel at the world of personalization that the Internet has created, the social Web has made everyone’s personal information valuable only as it relates to everyone else. What’s the point of having a detailed Facebook profile without a sea of others who do also? Why bother blogging or Twittering anything if no one else is there to read it? <br> In technology terms, this is known as Metcalf’s Law. The value of a network grows the more nodes it contains. For example, the value of owning a fax machine went up as more people owned faxes. Translated to the social arena, what this means is the value of belonging to a network grows as more people join in. But as we all join and participate in these new communications networks, a subtle shift in power is taking place, from the center out to the edges. 
