51
'apples
Mother's Day should be the biggest day of the year
Foxnews
http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2018/05/13/mothers-day-should-be-biggest-day-year.html
2018-05-13
Karol Markowicz
This Sunday, as we all pause to honor the mothers in our lives, I have words of advice for men observing the day with the mother of their children: do more. If you’re debating between a spa gift certificate and flowers, get both. If you were planning to take the kids out in the morning so she could rest, take them out for the afternoon too. Mother’s Day should be the biggest holiday of the year and it’s time moms said so. <br> Think about the great dads you know. Easy, right? You probably could come up with some right away. The ones who stand out because they do drop-off at school or cheer at Little League games. The ones who give baths or read books. Now think of the great moms. Harder, right? It’s not because there are so few great moms it’s because, barring a few bad apples, most moms are pretty great. Most moms do drop-off AND cheer at the games AND give baths AND read books and do about a million other tiny things that dads get so congratulated for doing. The bar is set so high for moms that a “great dad” is a dad who is somewhat involved in their kid’s life but a “great mom” would have to go far beyond that to get her accolades. <br> As a dad, my husband worries that raising them in Brooklyn might lead to them becoming Nets fans instead of his preferred Knicks. The end. <br> I don’t begrudge his lack of worry and if I didn’t exist I’m sure he’d have the burden of thinking about most of the things with which I concern myself. But that means that yes, once a year I expect my husband to bring it and celebrate me as the mother of his children. That means he can’t just wake up on the day of and pick a restaurant, it has to be somewhere special, and while I don’t expect a gift (but it doesn’t hurt), I do expect a nice card with words of appreciation for all I do. It’s not about spending money on me. I’d be just as happy with a nice dinner at home, or other free gestures, but I better see real effort. <br> And that’s not even getting into the physical changes that motherhood has wrought. My husband gets to stay mostly the same man he was and that’s in large part because of me. He’s an amazing dad what with his cheering and bath-giving, but fatherhood is just not as involved as motherhood. If there’s an issue with the kids, he hears about it but the details of our kids’ lives get filtered through me. Of course there are dads out there who are full-time parents in the way that has long been the mom’s role. And they should absolutely be commended for it. But for most men, Father’s Day isn’t so much a celebration of what they do as an encouragement to keep doing it. Mother’s Day is different and it’s ok to say so.
