58
'apples
Tammy Bruce: CNN's latest, desperate attempt to hammer Trump is mind-boggling
Foxnews
http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2017/10/25/tammy-bruce-cnns-latest-desperate-attempt-to-hammer-trump-is-mind-boggling.html
2017-10-25
Tammy Bruce
Editor's note:The following column originally appeared in The Washington Times. <br> How do you know when the liberal media meltdown is approaching an apex? Just look for apples, bananas and a strong smell of smug. <br> What CNN reveals with this abject sanctimony is their contempt for the viewers themselves. “This is an apple. Some people might try to tell you that it’s a banana. They might scream banana, banana, banana, over and over and over again. They might put BANANA in all caps. You might even start to believe that this is a banana. But it’s not. This is an apple.” And then the words “Facts First” appear on screen. <br> They must be feeling very, um, special right around now as sole possessors of the truth, as a Harris Poll in May found that 65 percent of voters feel that fake news in the mainstream news media is a big problem. <br> From May 2017, The Hill reported, “Nearly two-thirds of Americans say the mainstream press is full of fake news, a sentiment that is held by a majority of voters across the ideological spectrum. According to data from the latest Harvard-Harris poll … 65 percent of voters believe there is a lot of fake news in the mainstream media. That number includes 80 percent of Republicans, 60 percent of independents and 53 percent of Democrats.” <br> Consider some recent headlines: Huffington Post: “CNN mistakes sex toy flag for ISIS Flag at London gay pride.” Daily Mail: “CNN anchor mistakes Star-Spangled Banner for French national anthem.” <br> ” ‘Like we don’t have any big giant proof,’ he said. ‘I think the president is probably right to say, like, “Look, you are witch-hunting me. You have no smoking gun. You have no real proof.” ‘ “ <br> The New York Times referred to CNN as having a “unique role as nemesis forMr. Trump.” Really? Also The New York Times: “3 CNN journalists resign after retracted story onTrumpally.” A story with three reporters and one anonymous source. When the target of the hit piece, Anthony Scaramucci, threatened to sue, only then did the network retract and apologize. <br> National Review: “CNN calls attacked Jerusalem synagogue a mosque; equates terrorists with victims.” <br> The Hill reported on CNN’s bizarre reaction about the hunt for the person who dared to make fun of the network: “He is a private citizen who has issued an extensive statement of apology, showed his remorse by saying he has taken down all his offending posts and because he said he is not going to repeat this ugly behavior on social media again.” The story, titled “How CNN found the Reddit user behind the Trump wrestling GIF,” quotes from CNN.com: “CNN reserves the right to publish his identity should any of that change.” <br> The Federalist reminds us of another CNN banana: “A banana is when you run conspiracy-mongering pieces that assert Republicans want to make rape and domestic violence pre-existing conditions in their Obamacare repeal bill when there is not a single word or action that backs up the allegation.”
