189
'apples
Looking for privacy in a world of apps
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2012/06/looking-for-privacy-in-a-world-of-apps-077854
2012-06-26
Jules Polonetsky
Privacy? The government has an app for that. <br> Well, to be precise: The Commerce Department’s National Telecommunications and Information Administration announced last week that mobile apps and privacy will be the first issue considered in the White House plan for enforceable privacy codes of conduct. Leading players in industry, consumer and advocacy groups and academia are due in Washington in mid-July to begin developing rules to protect the privacy of app users. <br> The fact that the Obama administration wants to look first at mobile privacy in devising a privacy bill of rights demonstrates how ubiquitous apps have become and the privacy risks they create. <br> Online stores now offer hundreds of thousands of apps, and billions have been downloaded. Yet the ground rules for personal privacy and consumers’ control over personal information are far from clear. <br> Like so much modern technology, no one thought about setting baseline rules on privacy. App stores now have some policies in place, but without consistent rules to cover the many participants in the mobile ecosystem, personal data is flowing through apps — including locations, address books, texts, emails and other highly personal information. Popular apps have been caught uploading users’ address books without asking permission. Advertising companies can bypass mobile browser privacy settings to track users. <br> The greatest sin of most online ad models is that they can verge on being creepy when ads seem to know too much. But the missteps of a naive app developer can create serious problems. <br> Ad networks, analytics companies, device manufacturers and location service providers collect and use consumer data, creating confusion over who is responsible for making sure consumers know. Despite an agreement between leading app stores and the California attorney general, many apps still lack privacy policies. <br> Plenty of companies in the app ecosystem want to do the right thing when it comes to privacy. A recent gathering of app developers at Stanford showed how eager many people are to learn how to protect consumers. They realize that unless consumers can trust them, the entire app economy could be jeopardized. That’s one reason for the traffic on www.applicationprivacy.org to learn about privacy. <br> The Washington conference is designed to bring together diverse points of view. Some privacy advocates most likely will call for the strictest controls. Some developers — and advertising companies that support them — very likely will argue for a more laissez-faire arrangement. 
