60
'apples
Why I am defending the farmer tossed out of a Michigan farmer’s market for his traditional views on marriage
Foxnews
http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2017/10/10/why-am-defending-farmer-tossed-out-michigan-farmer-s-market-for-his-traditional-views-on-marriage.html
2017-10-10
John Bursch
Steve Tennes, who owns Country Mill Farms in Charlotte, Michigan, has prevailed so far in his lawsuit against the city of East Lansing after it tossed him and his family out of its farmer’s market. A federal district court ordered the city to allow him back in for now, and there’s a good reason for that: The city is unconstitutionally discriminating against Steve and his orchard, and that’s why I joined the lawsuit to fight for his freedom. <br> A second-generation family business, Country Mill grows apples, blueberries, peaches, cherries, sweet corn, and pumpkins. It hosts numerous community and charitable events. And it has sold its produce at the East Lansing Farmer’s Market for many years. In fact, from 2011 to 2016, the city expressly invited Country Mill to participate in the market as an “invitational vendor” because of its exceptional service. <br> At first, the city instructed Country Mill not to come to the farmer’s market because of possible protests. Having broken no law, Country Mill attended the market anyway. No protest materialized, either that week or the rest of the 2016 season. So the city created a policy to exclude Country Mill by incorporating the city’s ordinance prohibiting discrimination based on sexual orientation. Of course, Country Mill does not discriminate based on sexual orientation; customers and employees are welcomed regardless of that. Steve simply expressed his belief in marriage’s meaning as taught by the Church. <br> The First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution guarantees every citizen the right to free speech and to freely exercise his or her religion. Yet East Lansing has denied Steve and Country Mill the ability to participate in the public square solely because the city dislikes Steve’s beliefs and his willingness to make public statements about them. That is why Steve reluctantly chose to sue and ask a federal court for an injunction ordering the city to allow Country Mill to participate once again in the farmer’s market. Reasoning that Steve is likely to prevail in his claims, the court granted the injunction on Sept. 15, meaning he can participate in the market for the remainder of the year while his lawsuit proceeds. <br> The city says it isn’t targeting Steve for his beliefs, but that argument fell flat with the court and fails in general. Steve isn’t breaking any law except for the one the city officials intentionally created to exclude him from the farmer’s market. They did this because he doesn’t live his life and operate his farm—22 miles outside of their jurisdiction—according to their beliefs about marriage rather than his own beliefs, which the First Amendment protects.
