210
'apples
Do not track our online data
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2011/03/do-not-track-our-online-data-050614
2011-03-04
Rep. Jackie Speier
Imagine this. You are at the kitchen table playing Scrabble with your family. Your whiz kid daughter takes all seven of her tiles and spells “casuist.” The other players are skeptical. They want an official review. You go to look it up at Dictionary.com. This is what you learn: “casuist” is a noun meaning someone who uses clever but unsound reasoning, especially in relation to moral questions—and your daughter is really smart. <br> Here is what you probably don’t know. By visiting Dictionary.com, you’ve exposed yourself to the single greatest tracker of online activity on the Internet. <br> There is no longer any anonymity on the Web — unless we mandate it. The most personal information about your online habits is collected, bought and sold, often instantaneously and invisibly. Data collection is a business driven by profits at consumers’ expense. The Wall Street Journal recently highlighted these practices —which include targeting children —in its groundbreaking series, “What They Know.” The Journal also outed Dictionary.com as the top venue for tracking technology. <br> Online trackers claim the information they collect is anonymous and helps enhance the user’s experience. But that doesn’t tell the whole story. The truth is it only takes 33 bits of information to uniquely indentify someone. In addition, the data collected is being used to make assumptions about you that can affect everything from your insurance premiums to your next job interview. <br> Just imagine this. You are the social director at your local church. You are in charge of buying refreshments for an upcoming bazaar. You go online and buy 15 cases of wine. This information is collected and then sold to a life or health insurance company that determines you are an alcoholic and should be charged more or denied coverage altogether. <br> How will a prospective employer interpret this information when it purchases it from an online tracking company? <br> Privacy isn’t negotiable. It’s the right of every American. That’s why I introduced the Do Not Track Me Online Act of 2011. This legislation would give consumers the ability to prevent the collection and use of data on their online activities. The message is simple: where you go and what you do on the Internet is your business. 
