238
'apples
Blue-collar fault line is not to blame - POLITICO
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2008/05/blue-collar-fault-line-is-not-to-blame-010081
2008-05-05
Leonard Steinhorn
If these seemingly endless Democratic primaries reveal anything beyond who has the most pledged delegates, it’s a blue-collar fault line that runs through the party. New York Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton dominates the archetypal older, white working-class vote, and Illinois Sen. Barack Obama does better with almost everyone else. But in contrast to conventional wisdom, this divide has less to do with race, guns, economic status and religion than with a larger worldview gap born of generational differences and technological change. <br> To blue-collar Americans, life is about paying one’s dues. Yes, they may want their kids to make it out of a steel town and get an Ivy League diploma, but at the kitchen table and the local tavern, the degree you receive is less impressive than the character education you earn at the school of hard knocks. This is the quintessential post-Depression narrative that gained hold in the ’50s: Men are sturdy and women are stoic, tradition and loyalty mean more than innovation and change, and what you accomplish is not as noteworthy as how hard you worked to get there. <br> In one of the more remarkable transformations in recent political history, Clinton has managed to morph her image in this campaign from that of a prototypical liberal elite into a working-class idol and waitress mom. The theme song from “Rocky” became her campaign anthem, and she has made it a point of pride to say that no matter how often she’s been knocked down, she has the grit and the will to keep getting up and, every time, it has made her stronger. <br> Clinton, once seen by conservatives as the bte noire of the ’60s, has become the candidate for an America of stalwart values, Rust Belt dreams and working-class determination. <br> To this America, Barack Obama may be an interesting and even attractive candidate, but largely because of his relative youth and his finely tailored demeanor, he seems to bear none of the scars that attest to an ongoing battle against the disappointment and frustration that are part of life. Those who have read his autobiography know he has not had it easy, but that doesn’t come through on the campaign trail. The Clintons’ charge that he’s inexperienced resonates with these voters not because it critiques his political bona fides but because it portrays his life as one lacking in tribulation and ordeal. <br> But all this gets flipped when the candidates are seen through the lens of the younger, more urbane and technologically savvy Democrats who tend to support Obama. To them, Obama is an inspiration similar to the high-tech and Internet entrepreneurs who have captured our imagination over the past three decades. If Clinton is U.S. Steel, Obama is Apple Computer. <br> What these voters prize is someone willing to break from the status quo, someone who values refreshing change over musty tradition, someone who promises a new paradigm rather than the old story line. If the old manufacturing sector was built on work rules, the new economy has thrived on tearing up those rules, on transparency and creativity and an end to hierarchy. It’s a culture in which a 20-something can become a CEO as quickly as a 50-something who has paid his dues. 
