239
'apples
Administration prevents lower college costs
Politico
https://www.politico.com/story/2008/02/administration-prevents-lower-college-costs-008574
2008-02-18
Rep. George Miller
The last time the Higher Education Act was reauthorized, Bill Clinton was president, Apple had yet to unveil its iMac and public colleges cost about $1,636 annually. <br> In the 10 years since — and in the five years since the current law expired — our country and world have changed dramatically, and so have the needs of students, families and employers. It’s about time our higher education system caught up. <br> Earlier this month, the House overwhelmingly approved bipartisan legislation that would make the long-overdue changes needed to bring the Higher Education Act into the 21st century. The bill would address the obstacles that families face on the path to college, from soaring tuition prices at both public and private colleges, to an overly burdensome federal student aid application process, to student loan programs that have been mired in scandal. <br> The same morning we passed our bill, these pages ran an op-ed by Education Secretary Margaret Spellings that attacked our bipartisan effort over provisions in the bill that would ensure that the roles of the Department of Education, colleges, universities and accreditation agencies — the independent organizations that certify a school’s eligibility to receive federal funds — are clearly defined when setting accreditation standards. <br> Over the past year, Secretary Spellings has taken steps to override the roles of these accrediting agencies, institutions and Congress when it comes to the diverse needs of higher education. This centralized, cookie-cutter approach would ultimately lead to less innovation at campuses across the country — the wrong direction for our students and colleges. <br> Our proposal would strike a more reasonable balance to ensure that all stakeholders, including the secretary, have a seat at the table in ensuring that students and families can get the best possible education in return for their investment. <br> It’s deeply ironic that the same secretary who failed to conduct oversight during the worst financial scandals in the history of the federal student aid programs — scandals that cost taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars — is now worried that our legislation will somehow undermine the accountability of colleges and universities. And it’s simply wrong for her to suggest that these proposals will somehow leave students and taxpayers in the dark. <br> In fact, this bill does just the opposite, taking a comprehensive, in-depth approach to provide consumers with much-needed transparency at every step of the higher education process. <br> H.R. 4137 would create an easy-to-use clearinghouse of information for students and families about college pricing. Consumers would be able to search for information based on their financial and academic needs, providing them with a more accurate view of their affordable college options. And for the first time, schools that raise their tuition well above the norm would be held accountable — an important step toward finally getting college prices under control. <br> The bill would also provide safeguards for borrowers of both federal and private student loans to protect them from deceptive and predatory lending practices. It would further simplify the federal student aid application form — which currently could confuse even the most savvy tax experts, let alone aspiring college students and their parents. <br> And the bill would help counter rising textbook prices, which have been driven up by publishers for too long. Just last week, Secretary Spellings argued that the federal government shouldn’t play a role in helping students better cope with these rising prices — a view that sums up just how out of touch this secretary and this administration are with the needs of today’s students and families who are struggling to pay for the cost of college. <br> We have an entirely different view: that it’s in the best interest of our country to remove any financial barriers standing between qualified students and a college education. We can’t afford to sit idly by as escalating costs make it more and more difficult for Americans to get a college degree. <br> The College Opportunity and Affordability Act will create the consumer-friendly, fair higher education system needed in today’s world. It will strengthen our work force and drive the innovation our nation needs to maintain our competitive edge. And it will ensure that, once again, the interests of students always come first. <br> The secretary should join a bipartisan majority of lawmakers in the House and the Senate, a broad coalition of organizations within the higher education community and, most importantly, students, in working to pass this bill into law. <br> Rep. George Miller (D-Calif.) is the chairman of the House Education and Labor Committee. 
